"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
Birds of a feather flock together.
Don't make much ado about nothing.
Fair weather friends are not worth much.
If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.
If words suffice not, blows must follow.
Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
Look before you leap.
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
No arguments will give courage to the coward.
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
One story is good, till another is told.
Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
She smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
Slow but steady wins the race.
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion
The Bear and the Fox
The Bear and the Two Travelers
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
The Dog in the Manger
The Farmer and the Cranes
The Farmer and the Snake
The Farmer and the Stork
The Fawn and His Mother
The Flies and the Honey-Pot
The Fox and the Goat
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
The Man and the Lion
The Mountain in Labor
The Oxen and the Axle-Trees
The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
The Swallow and the Crow
The Tortoise and the Eagle
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns as
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone down
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself to
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
dangers from which you had no means of escape."
death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
deserts you at the approach of danger."
earnest what he can do."
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
earth?'
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
fast as I can."
fatigue.
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know
leisure.
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am a
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My broken
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
must die in their company."
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, crying
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  Steadying
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will place
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly.
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body.
such vain disputings."
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds
that you would eat the dead and not the living."
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away as
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them.
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake of
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for this
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
under the paw of the Lion."
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraided
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this
who can."
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
winter."
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course.
with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the
wound.  "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards."  The Goat
your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up
