"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
"Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
A MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.
Count the cost before you commit yourselves.
Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
Every tale is not to be believed.
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
Necessity is the mother of invention.
No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
The Ass and the Frogs
The Ass and the Old Shepherd
The Bowman and Lion
The Bull and the Calf
The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter
The Camel
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
The Crab and the Fox
The Crow and the Pitcher
The Crow and the Raven
The Dog and the Hare
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow
The Fox and the Hedgehog
The Gnat and the Lion
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
The Hares and the Foxes
The Hart and the Vine
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
The Hen and the Golden Eggs
The Jackdaw and the Doves
The Kites and the Swans
The Monkey and the Dolphin
The Mule
The Oak and the Woodcutters
The Peacock and the Crane
The Serpent and the Eagle
The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep
The Thief and the Innkeeper
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
The Trees and the Axe
The Two Frogs
The Walnut-Tree
The Wasp and the Snake
The Wolf and the Fox
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
The Wolves and the Sheepdogs
The Woman and Her Hen
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
Two blacks do not make one white.
Use serves to overcome dread.
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot.
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  If
again to the inn.
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
and her kittens.
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like a
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in one
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
been caused by you."
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
blood I have left."
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a long
coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
cock, among the birds of the dunghill."
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
consist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."
danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
definitely a wolf."
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
distrust him.
division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
enemy and I shall perish together."
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
find you, when the day of payment comes?'
first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."
for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
galloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.
greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
have been only an ass."
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, if
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  As
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carried
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silent
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
it aloft.
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolate
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
knew that way long before you were born."
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an
large misfortunes.
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of
make themselves ridiculous.
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all the
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strength
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for these
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who noted
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were so
of stealing something which should enable him to pay his
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the Lion
of their master.
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At last
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, and
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared to
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able to
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you would
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled these
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who
present blessings.
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of a
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least my
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of the
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you go
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
should repay me with these painful requitals!"
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he became
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraud
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of the
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.
the attack of the man himself?'
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
the gain of which they were assured day by day.
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do
the sea?'
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same
these wedges made from my own branches."
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,
under the water and drowned him.
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungry
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perish
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
water within his reach and thus saved his life.
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived in
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, he
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."
wheels.
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The Dogs
with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, as if in
you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard? If an enemy, why do
you fawn on me?'
you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we
