"Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
"Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how
"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
A DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple.
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
AN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a
As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and
Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
Elephant."
Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The
It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should
King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion to be set
Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke
Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
Plane-Tree.  As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers
SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and
Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
Some men underrate their best blessings.
THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.  "It is
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
TWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
The Ant and the Dove
The Ass and His Driver
The Ass and the Charger
The Bald Man and the Fly
The Camel and Jupiter
The Camel and the Arab
The Crow and the Sheep
The Dog and the Cook
The Dog and the Oyster
The Eagle and His Captor
The Eagle and the Kite
The Flea and the Man
The Fox and the Bramble
The Hares and the Frogs
The Lamb and the Wolf
The Lion and the Shepherd
The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant
The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his
The Mules and the Robbers
The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree
The Panther and the Shepherds
The Partridge and the Fowler
The Rich Man and the Tanner
The Rose and the Amaranth
The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea
The Thieves and the Cock
The Thrush and the Fowler
The Travelers and the Plane-Tree
The Viper and the File
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in
The gift of a friend?'
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at
To this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than
a cock."  Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? I
a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the
a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The Ant
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favor of a
afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself
after his buffetings with the deep.  After a while he awoke, and
after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me back
afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, wagging
afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid
again.  The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought
air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from the
all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of the occasion to
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded of
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him
any wound."
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an
arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded
aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"
asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  The
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and
attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.  The
attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how
away.  The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
be eaten by you."
be like us in outside appearances.
because its berries were so delicious.  A Fowler observed her
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point of
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
business."
buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should
came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time he
can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can
care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow."  While he
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  The Eagle,
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse was
clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly
conscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the
continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came
convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
cried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you
crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'
dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the
dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
determined to put an end to themselves and their troubles by
die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to
die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is
discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
drowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked
eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to
endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex,
entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
fail in the performance."
feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.
feet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On
fellow if you expect to get anything from me, who am accustomed
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."
for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in
for his life:  "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.  I
for me, and am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
former owner, lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a
forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who
free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and
fury."
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.  His yelling soon
had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had
handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.  I have jaws well
hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller
hastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came
have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
he had enjoyed his supper.  He replied, "Why, to tell you the
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than
he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,
him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.
his lair.  A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, took
his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant,
his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."  The
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously
human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had
immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
incurred a heavier penalty."
induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed
injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with
inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still
intentions.
invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master gives
it at all.
it at once as an offering to his benefactor.  A Fox, seeing this,
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
it from him.  Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,
it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,
it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling
jumping from a lofty precipice into a deep lake below.  As they
know how I got out of the house."
leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injure
length of time it had lain about the fields.  "Is this," said the
life with stones, and those who gave me food
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."
looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and
man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to
me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."
meal.  The File replied, "You must indeed be a simple-minded
misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I was
more timid than ourselves."
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the winds
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.
not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him.
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he
of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,
old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his
old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let
over all the beasts of the forest, and what a disgrace it is,
owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure,
pain, the Lion returned into the forest.  Some time after, the
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain.
perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the
persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.  Shortly
placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his
pleasure to his friend, the Cook saw him moving about among his
poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do you
possibly do you much harm."  The Man, laughing, replied, "Now you
proceeded far when they met a company of women and children:
prolong his life.  At night they returned home, not dreaming of
provided with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord it
reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is
really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,
relations."
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is nothing
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die.
restored to his friends.
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost me
scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the
second time of your wings."
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have often
seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the Hares
shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether it be
shall now with less scruple take your life, because you are
sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannot
small or large, ought to be tolerated."
so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."
so much trouble in catching you?'  The Flea replied, "O my dear
son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not
spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about to
strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to give
strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and
strong.  I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter; and I
suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into
supposing it to be an egg.  Soon afterwards suffering great pain
take wing.
that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would
that I would not have promised, however much I knew that I must
that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing of
that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and,
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, as
the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little
the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularly
the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his
the ostrich you promised me."  The Kite, soaring aloft into the
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accord
the seasons.  A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding the
their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the
their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town.
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty
them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with their
them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to
them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him:
themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of a
there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be
this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth."
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with
thus prolong my life to a good old age."
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, and
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed
to its widest extent, swallowed it down with the utmost relish,
to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of
to take from everyone, and never to give anything in return."
together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
tree in company with a Kite.  "Why," said the Kite, "do I see you
tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on
trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old
true, O Jupiter!"  he said, "that I am gigantic in strength,
truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.  I do not
try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass
tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed his neighbor to go
unsuspected danger.
up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of
wake them up in the night to their work."  "That is the very
was congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey his
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain.
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,
who injured me."
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  Upon
willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
with me tonight."  The Dog thus invited went at the hour
with quiet and easy step.  All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon
with such a rueful look?'  "I seek," she replied, "a mate suitable
without ceremony out of the window.  He fell with force upon the
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.  Then the Ass, seeing
you in recompense for your mercy to me."  The Fowler replied, "I
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our
you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade,
your cost."
your courage never fails you except in this one instance."  On
