"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
Ass."
Every man for himself.
Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs.
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.
SOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
The Ass Carrying the Image
The Ass and His Masters
The Ass and His Shadow
The Bee and Jupiter
The Brazier and His Dog
The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat
The Master and His Dogs
The Milk-Woman and Her Pail
The Old Hound
The Old Lion
The Playful Ass
The Rivers and the Sea
The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
The Seaside Travelers
The Three Tradesmen
The Two Travelers and the Axe
The Wolf and the Housedog
The Wolf and the Shepherds
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."
admit any interference from you in our affairs."
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head
am."
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good as
and then you will die from the loss of it."
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could
briny."
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went.
counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
distance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
double death."
dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
enough to spoil the appetite."
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
expect him to spare us?'
fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
galloped off.
gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.
hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain is
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
others.
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be made
see but a load of wood."
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  When
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, and
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can we
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they found
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
together to consider the best means of protecting it from the
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
very great amusement."
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse
with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel
work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit to drink?"
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the Dolphins replied, "We
would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than
wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am
yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that
