"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
Bull."
Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
Every man should be content to mind his own business.
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
The Bald Knight
The Bull and the Goat
The Dancing Monkeys
The Doe and the Lion
The Farmer and the Fox
The Fox and the Leopard
The Hare and the Hound
The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter
The Lamp
The Lion and the Hare
The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass
The Monkeys and Their Mother
The Mouse and the Bull
The Oaks and Jupiter
The Peasant and the Eagle
The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury
The Seagull and the Kite
The Shepherd and the Dog
The Traveler and Fortune
The best intentions will not always ensure success.
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of
admit a wolf into the fold?'
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of
all the profit.
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,
another.
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner lit
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chase
be relit"
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took his
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
distress.
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
exposed.
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."
forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
has no business to seek its food from the sea."
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
home grieving sorely.
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall.
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
in body, but in mind."
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields
laid to your roots."
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a
loaded with an abundance of riches."
mischief."
much by their own folly they have really brought them on
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheat
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
only to serve the turn of a Fox."
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to the
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will be
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they
rendered him by the Eagle.
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was only
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and set
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing
running for a dinner, but he for his life."
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the service
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of wind
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he
the audience.
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly
the chance of obtaining more."
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties he
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one was
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots
themselves."
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
treated these poor Ants?'
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellent
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
