"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
"Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
"You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together.
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway.
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion.
A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
A MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
A false tale often betrays itself.
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.
ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Acquaintance softens prejudices.
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.
Bull."
Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.
Counsel without help is useless.
Count the cost before you commit yourselves.
Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.
Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
Every man should be content to mind his own business.
Every tale is not to be believed.
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
Evil tendencies are shown in early life.
Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
It is easy to kick a man that is down.
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
Mercury and the Sculptor
Mercury and the Workmen
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
Messenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity knows no law.
No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
Persuasion is better than Force.
ROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
Self-help is the best help.
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither.
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
Stoop to conquer.
Straws show how the wind blows.
Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
The Apes and the Two Travelers
The Ass and the Frogs
The Ass and the Old Shepherd
The Ass and the Wolf
The Ass in the Lion's Skin
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
The Bald Knight
The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat
The Blind Man and the Whelp
The Bowman and Lion
The Boy Bathing
The Brother and the Sister
The Bull and the Calf
The Bull and the Goat
The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter
The Camel
The Cat and the Mice
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
The Cobbler Turned Doctor
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
The Crab and the Fox
The Crow and Mercury
The Crow and the Pitcher
The Crow and the Raven
The Dancing Monkeys
The Doe and the Lion
The Dog and the Hare
The Dog's House
The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox
The Dogs and the Fox
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
The Dove and the Crow
The Eagle and the Jackdaw
The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow
The Farmer and the Fox
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
The Fisherman and the Little Fish
The Fishermen
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
The Flea and the Ox
The Flea and the Wrestler
The Fly and the Draught-Mule
The Fowler and the Viper
The Fox and the Crane
The Fox and the Grapes
The Fox and the Hedgehog
The Fox and the Leopard
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Mask
The Fox and the Monkey
The Fox and the Woodcutter
The Gamecocks and the Partridge
The Geese and the Cranes
The Gnat and the Lion
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
The Goat and the Ass
The Goods and the Ills
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
The Hare and the Hound
The Hares and the Foxes
The Hares and the Lions
The Hart and the Vine
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
The Hawk and the Nightingale
The Hen and the Golden Eggs
The Horse and the Ass
The Horse and the Stag
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
The Hunter and the Woodman
The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter
The Jackdaw and the Doves
The Kid and the Wolf
The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
The Kites and the Swans
The Lamp
The Lark and Her Young Ones
The Lion and the Bull
The Lion and the Hare
The Lion and the Three Bulls
The Lion in a Farmyard
The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox
The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass
The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox
The Man and His Wife
The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog
The Monkey and the Dolphin
The Monkey and the Fishermen
The Monkeys and Their Mother
The Mouse and the Bull
The Mule
The North Wind and the Sun
The Oak and the Reeds
The Oak and the Woodcutters
The Oaks and Jupiter
The Owl and the Birds
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
The Peacock and Juno
The Peacock and the Crane
The Peasant and the Eagle
The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury
The Prophet
The Quack Frog
The Seagull and the Kite
The Seller of Images
The Serpent and the Eagle
The Shepherd and the Dog
The Sparrow and the Hare
The Spendthrift and the Swallow
The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep
The Swan and the Goose
The Swollen Fox
The Thief and the Housedog
The Thief and the Innkeeper
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
The Traveler and Fortune
The Trees and the Axe
The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
The Two Frogs
The Two Frogs
The Two Men Who Were Enemies
The Walnut-Tree
The Wasp and the Snake
The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer
The Weasel and the Mice
The Wild Boar and the Fox
The Wolf and the Fox
The Wolf and the Goat
The Wolf and the Horse
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf and the Shepherd
The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
The Wolves and the Sheepdogs
The Woman and Her Hen
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
The best intentions will not always ensure success.
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.
The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
Two blacks do not make one white.
Union is strength.
Use serves to overcome dread.
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot.
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, who
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothing
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
accommodate him.
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  If
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
admit a wolf into the fold?'
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same
again to the inn.
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
all the profit.
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, he
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even to
and her kittens.
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to be
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like a
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in one
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He then
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
and preserved his life by his melody.
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men and
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily and
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, my
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
another.
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  The
are not yet even within sight."
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner lit
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearing
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when you
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you been
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle,
at night.
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood on
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chase
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass
be relit"
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took his
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
been caused by you."
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, and
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtime
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, being
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
blood I have left."
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, and
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth.
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flour
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years and
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them.
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a long
coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
cock, among the birds of the dunghill."
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
consist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
definitely a wolf."
den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
deny."
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
destruction also."
destruction."
destruction."
determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
dinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
distress.
distrust him.
division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
down for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
enemy and I shall perish together."
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
enjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
exposed.
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place.
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
find you, when the day of payment comes?'
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
food, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
food, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."
for me to give the water to them than to you."
for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
for they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'
forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."
forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
from which an irremediable poison, the bird-
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
galloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
gave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
get credit for it.
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
go food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."
great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
had enslaved himself to the service of man.
had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
has no business to seek its food from the sea."
hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
have been only an ass."
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and brought
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'
hear his roar at a distance?'
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
help me now and scold me afterwards."
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, if
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on the
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them.
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
him, and tore him to pieces.
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.
him.
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determined
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  As
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strict
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with
his path.
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carried
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they were
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silent
home grieving sorely.
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly
ill, but to good, will."
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall.
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
in body, but in mind."
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a hearty
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, without
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long bill
into the snares of death."
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
it aloft.
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolate
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to
knew that way long before you were born."
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.
laid to your roots."
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an
large misfortunes.
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,
leisure.
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, being
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free with
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer
loaded with an abundance of riches."
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
make me useful to him."
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.
make themselves ridiculous.
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
me."
meal-bag, we will not come near you."
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animals
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty
mischief."
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all the
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  The
much by their own folly they have really brought them on
my friend and I must have our dinners."
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"
myself, if I had not heard your bray."
necessities.
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strength
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for these
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches.
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who noted
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; and
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were so
of stealing something which should enable him to pay his
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheat
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the Lion
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flock
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his
of their master.
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At last
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
only to serve the turn of a Fox."
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, and
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared to
out."
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able to
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
own hospitality.
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happened
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among the
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to the
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you would
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled these
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will be
present blessings.
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of a
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  The
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least my
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged
refrain from quarreling with each other."
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
rendered him by the Eagle.
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was only
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and set
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of the
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell
running for a dinner, but he for his life."
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,
safety, and without fear."
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into a
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you go
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of the
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it was
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found the
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the Ills
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I will
sheepfold."
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand and
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
should next have something to make us sad."
should repay me with these painful requitals!"
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, he
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were
similar misfortune."
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, not
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holds
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the service
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A Fox
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he became
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
speech."
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable,
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot even
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a public
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slain
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of her
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to
that into the bargain."
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of wind
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraud
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of the
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he
the attack of the man himself?'
the audience.
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly
the chance of obtaining more."
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'
the gain of which they were assured day by day.
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties he
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, in
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of
the sea?'
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one was
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replying
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began to
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings.
their past folly.
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keep
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.
themselves."
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."
these wedges made from my own branches."
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to his
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her and
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The owner
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard his
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, and
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers and
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
treated these poor Ants?'
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."
try and catch fish?'
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagon
turned piper to please you."
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laid
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,
under the water and drowned him.
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for what
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone out
using them."
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungry
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
very slowly."
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the one
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perish
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
water within his reach and thus saved his life.
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived in
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, he
we get out again from so great a depth?'
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the
were to forego my present certain gain."
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man replied
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength and
wheels.
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheep
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her and
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellent
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with the
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
who are able to discern them.
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The Dogs
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck
with all his warmth.  The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays
with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my
with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between
with the endowments allotted to them."
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If this lion were
witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and
wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, as if in
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends
you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard? If an enemy, why do
you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another
you fawn on me?'
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but
you like, whenever it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable
you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these
your lack of beauty by your virtues."
your teeth."
yourself, who are in want of food."
