"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
A MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
Every tale is not to be believed.
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
Necessity is the mother of invention.
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
The Crow and the Pitcher
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow
The Fox and the Hedgehog
The Gnat and the Lion
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
The Hart and the Vine
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
The Jackdaw and the Doves
The Monkey and the Dolphin
The Mule
The Serpent and the Eagle
The Thief and the Innkeeper
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
The Two Frogs
The Walnut-Tree
The Wolf and the Fox
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot.
again to the inn.
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
and her kittens.
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like a
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from
blood I have left."
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a long
coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
cock, among the birds of the dunghill."
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
consist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
definitely a wolf."
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."
for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
galloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
have been only an ass."
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  As
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carried
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silent
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
it aloft.
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolate
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all the
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strength
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for these
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered
of stealing something which should enable him to pay his
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the Lion
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At last
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, and
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared to
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled these
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you go
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you
should repay me with these painful requitals!"
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he became
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of the
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.
under the water and drowned him.
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungry
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perish
water within his reach and thus saved his life.
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived in
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, he
wheels.
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened
wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but
