"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
Hercules and the Wagoner
If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
Like will draw like.
Self-help is the best help.
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
The Ants and the Grasshopper
The Ass and the Grasshopper
The Bat and the Weasels
The Boy Hunting Locusts
The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller
The Cock and the Jewel
The Dog and the Shadow
The Father and His Sons
The Fisherman Piping
The Hare and the Tortoise
The Herdsman and the Lost Bull
The Kingdom of the Lion
The Lion and the Mouse
The Mole and His Mother
The Traveler and His Dog
The Wolf and the Crane
The Wolf and the Lamb
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
all your locusts too!"
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with all
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
be sure to repay your kindness." The Lion laughed and let him go. It
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."
divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
escape injury for your pains.
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
first estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters,
having been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that
his own, because the stream swept it away.
his tyranny.
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone.
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
life.
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it is
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,
mouth and jaws of a wolf."
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  He
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for
only secure my own escape from him in safety."
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion."
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, exclaiming:
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," replied
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to the
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.
sticks."
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  Then
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened the
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  He
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of one
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
time escaped.
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it is
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to me
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing his
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
winter."
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
with your charcoal."
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
