"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
"You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion.
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
Mercury and the Sculptor
Messenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
Necessity knows no law.
Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
Stoop to conquer.
Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock
The Cat and the Mice
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
The Fisherman and the Little Fish
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
The Flea and the Wrestler
The Fox and the Woodcutter
The Hunter and the Woodman
The Lion in a Farmyard
The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox
The Monkey and the Fishermen
The Oak and the Reeds
The Swan and the Goose
The Swollen Fox
The Two Frogs
The Wild Boar and the Fox
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, he
and preserved his life by his melody.
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the
come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
dinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place.
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
hear his roar at a distance?'
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they were
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a hearty
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.
make me useful to him."
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
meal-bag, we will not come near you."
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and
my friend and I must have our dinners."
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my
out."
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into a
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, he
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
speech."
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
that into the bargain."
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings.
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her and
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his
try and catch fish?'
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen
using them."
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at
we get out again from so great a depth?'
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the
were to forego my present certain gain."
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with
with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between
wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
