"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
"You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion.
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
Bull."
Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.
Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
Every man should be content to mind his own business.
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
Mercury and the Sculptor
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
Messenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
Necessity knows no law.
Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
Stoop to conquer.
Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
The Bald Knight
The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock
The Bull and the Goat
The Cat and the Mice
The Dancing Monkeys
The Doe and the Lion
The Farmer and the Fox
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
The Fisherman and the Little Fish
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
The Flea and the Wrestler
The Fox and the Leopard
The Fox and the Woodcutter
The Hare and the Hound
The Hunter and the Woodman
The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter
The Lamp
The Lion and the Hare
The Lion in a Farmyard
The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox
The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass
The Monkey and the Fishermen
The Monkeys and Their Mother
The Mouse and the Bull
The Oak and the Reeds
The Oaks and Jupiter
The Peasant and the Eagle
The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury
The Seagull and the Kite
The Shepherd and the Dog
The Swan and the Goose
The Swollen Fox
The Traveler and Fortune
The Two Frogs
The Wild Boar and the Fox
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
The best intentions will not always ensure success.
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of
admit a wolf into the fold?'
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of
all the profit.
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, he
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
and preserved his life by his melody.
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,
another.
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner lit
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chase
be relit"
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took his
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the
come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
dinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
distress.
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
exposed.
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place.
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'
forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."
forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
has no business to seek its food from the sea."
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
hear his roar at a distance?'
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they were
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived
home grieving sorely.
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall.
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
in body, but in mind."
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a hearty
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?
laid to your roots."
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
loaded with an abundance of riches."
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.
make me useful to him."
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
meal-bag, we will not come near you."
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
mischief."
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and
much by their own folly they have really brought them on
my friend and I must have our dinners."
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheat
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."
only to serve the turn of a Fox."
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my
out."
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to the
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will be
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they
rendered him by the Eagle.
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was only
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and set
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing
running for a dinner, but he for his life."
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into a
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, he
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the service
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of
speech."
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
that into the bargain."
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of wind
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he
the audience.
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly
the chance of obtaining more."
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties he
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one was
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings.
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The
themselves."
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her and
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say
treated these poor Ants?'
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his
try and catch fish?'
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen
using them."
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a
we get out again from so great a depth?'
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the
were to forego my present certain gain."
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellent
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with
with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between
wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
