"Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own
"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
"O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my
"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
"Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
(which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience )
A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
A DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of
A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time.
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them
A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink.  Seeing his
A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple.
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
A man is known by the company he keeps.
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed.
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
AN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a
As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and
Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon
Attempt not impossibilities.
Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for
Cat, quite forgetting her present condition, started up from the
Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
Elephant."
Fox gobbled them up.
Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred
I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The
It is absurd to ape our betters.
It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should
Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion to be set
Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree.
Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the
Minerva.  On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as
Momus as judge, and to abide by his decision.  Momus, however,
Nature exceeds nurture.
Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke
Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
Plane-Tree.  As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers
Prince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set
Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his
Self-interest alone moves some men.
She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and
Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the
Some men underrate their best blessings.
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.  "It is
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
TWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
The Ant and the Dove
The Ass and His Driver
The Ass and His Purchaser
The Ass and the Charger
The Ass and the Horse
The Bald Man and the Fly
The Bitch and Her Whelps
The Buffoon and the Countryman
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any
The Camel and Jupiter
The Camel and the Arab
The Cat and Venus
The Crow and the Serpent
The Crow and the Sheep
The Dog and the Cook
The Dog and the Oyster
The Dogs and the Hides
The Eagle and His Captor
The Eagle and the Fox
The Eagle and the Kite
The Flea and the Man
The Fox and the Bramble
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
The Gnat and the Bull
The Grasshopper and the Owl
The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of
The Hares and the Frogs
The Hen and the Swallow
The Hunter and the Horseman
The Jackdaw and the Fox
The King's Son and the Painted Lion
The Lamb and the Wolf
The Lark Burying Her Father
The Lion and the Eagle
The Lion and the Fox
The Lion and the Shepherd
The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant
The Man and the Satyr
The Manslayer
The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass
The Monkey and the Camel
The Mother and the Wolf
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his
The Mules and the Robbers
The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree
The Panther and the Shepherds
The Partridge and the Fowler
The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
The Rich Man and the Tanner
The Rose and the Amaranth
The She-Goats and Their Beards
The Shepherd and the Sheep
The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea
The Stag at the Pool
The Thieves and the Cock
The Thrush and the Fowler
The Travelers and the Plane-Tree
The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods
The Two Bags
The Two Soldiers and the Robber
The Viper and the File
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in
The gift of a friend?'
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at
To this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the
Truth and the Traveler
Try before you trust.
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them.
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing to
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.
a cock."  Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? I
a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup
a goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it,
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the
a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The Ant
about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.  In the agony of death,
accordance with his own nature and powers.  The Fox discovered
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favor of a
afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself
after his buffetings with the deep.  After a while he awoke, and
after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me back
afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, wagging
afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid
again.  The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought
against the intended mischief.  And, lastly, he inveighed against
air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from the
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."
all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.
all, beginning with yourself?'
all.  He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"
along with a burning cinder, to her nest.  A strong breeze soon
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking
and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of the occasion to
and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.
and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded of
and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You are
and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it.
and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why,
and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
and would not permit the shepherd to approach.
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion.
any wound."
apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation
appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an
arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded
aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"
asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  The
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,
assembly.
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and
attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.  The
attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how
away.  The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
be eaten by you."
be like us in outside appearances.
because its berries were so delicious.  A Fowler observed her
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper duty in
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point of
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where a
being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge
benefit."
besought her to stop chirping.  The Grasshopper refused to
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably
brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about
business."
buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should
called out to him and said, "Get along with you! for I will now
came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and
came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time he
can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "a
can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can
care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow."  While he
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  The Eagle,
caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse was
cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and
clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly
companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his
companion."
confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said:
conscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the
continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came
contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to
convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
couch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it.  Venus was much
cried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you
crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
crocodile caught him and ate him.  Thus the earth, the air, and
cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'
day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the
dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."
desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated.
determined to put an end to themselves and their troubles by
die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to
die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is
dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the
disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape.
discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her
discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up
drinking long before they reached the hides.
drowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.  When
effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to
else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex,
enjoyment."
entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
even if it had been only with those words, for I should have been
evening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass
exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
eyes of their neighbors.
fail in the performance."
fanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged
father's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account
faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.
feet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On
fellow if you expect to get anything from me, who am accustomed
fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
few, but is now with all men."
find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a
finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young
first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."
fondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the
food.  As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he
for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in
for his life:  "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.  I
for me, and am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
for the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
former owner, lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a
forsooth!
forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who
foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily
free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and
friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he
fury."
generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the
grave-hillock.
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.  His yelling soon
habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.  The
had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.  I have jaws well
hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller
hastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came
have experienced with what speed you run away, know right well
have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
he climbed up into the tree and shook them down.  The Sheep
he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.  Later on
he had enjoyed his supper.  He replied, "Why, to tell you the
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "I
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the
he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but
heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow,
him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.
him.  The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his
himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering a
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon
himself:  "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet which
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied
his lair.  A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, took
his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant,
his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own
his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."  The
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so long
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of
hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificing
human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had
huntsmen and hounds.
immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in so
in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quite
in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do to
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion.
in, from which he died not many days later.
incurred a heavier penalty."
indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are indulging a hope
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the
induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed
injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with
inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull
inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still
intentions.
invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master gives
it at all.
it at once as an offering to his benefactor.  A Fox, seeing this,
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
it from him.  Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,
it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,
it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling
jumping from a lofty precipice into a deep lake below.  As they
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a
know how I got out of the house."
learn whom he has attacked."  On this, he who had fought with the
leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injure
length of time it had lain about the fields.  "Is this," said the
life with stones, and those who gave me food
lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thus
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in the branches
loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd,
looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part.
made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know
make you a present of the hare."
man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw a
man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to
me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."
meal.  The File replied, "You must indeed be a simple-minded
might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced his
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions
misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I was
more timid than ourselves."
most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here,"
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
mouth and blew in it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,
myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  If
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the
nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the winds
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him.
oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he
observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there
of her young than for her inability to avenge them.  A just
of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,
off as fast as he could.  The Hunter ran after him, as if he was
old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his
old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let
one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himself
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all.
only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all
over all the beasts of the forest, and what a disgrace it is,
own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size
owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have
owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure,
pain, the Lion returned into the forest.  Some time after, the
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain.
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward
perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the
persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.  Shortly
placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his
plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones,
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all
pleases?'
pleasure to his friend, the Cook saw him moving about among his
poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do you
possibly do you much harm."  The Man, laughing, replied, "Now you
pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes
proceeded far when they met a company of women and children:
produced her young.  Not long after they had agreed upon this
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the
prolong his life.  At night they returned home, not dreaming of
provided with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord it
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode
reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is
really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,
relations."
remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant at
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is nothing
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die.
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
restored to his friends.
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.  While
rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the
sacred, took great care of it.
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,
said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost me
scalding.  The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his
scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the
second time of your wings."
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have often
seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the Hares
seized her, and put her to death.
shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether it be
shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he
shall now with less scruple take your life, because you are
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lie
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by
shoulders and set out homewards.  On his way he met a man on
sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannot
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches,
small or large, ought to be tolerated."
so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."
so much trouble in catching you?'  The Flea replied, "O my dear
son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not
spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him
squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about to
strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to give
strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and
strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward you with
strong.  I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter; and I
such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge,
such slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplating
suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into
supposing it to be an egg.  Soon afterwards suffering great pain
sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more
swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the little
take wing.
that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would
that I would not have promised, however much I knew that I must
that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing of
that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and,
that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, as
that no dependence can be placed on your valor."
the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you
the bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which I
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able
the bottom of the tree.  There, in the sight of the Eagle, the
the distance between them.  The Hunter, sorely against his will,
the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little
the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you
the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularly
the more encouraged, believing them to be true; but now put up
the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said
the ostrich you promised me."  The Kite, soaring aloft into the
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accord
the seasons.  A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding the
the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.
theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very
their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the
their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town.
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty
them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with their
them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to
them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him:
them.  When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him that
themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of a
there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on
this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth."
thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with
thus prolong my life to a good old age."
till you can deceive others who do not know you.  I, indeed, who
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, and
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to her
to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place
to its widest extent, swallowed it down with the utmost relish,
to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of
to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself fell prey to the
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
to take from everyone, and never to give anything in return."
to which had made the most perfect work.  They agreed to appoint
together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shall
tree in company with a Kite.  "Why," said the Kite, "do I see you
tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the
trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice.
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose the
tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on
trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old
true, O Jupiter!"  he said, "that I am gigantic in strength,
truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.  I do not
try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass
tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old
uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed his neighbor to go
unsuspected danger.
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves with
up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of
up to him and caught him.  When too late, he thus reproached
use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"
utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
wake them up in the night to their work."  "That is the very
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what she
was congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey his
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and
was greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.
what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."
when you go away."
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she
where to strike.  He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because
which have proved my destruction."
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the
which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain.
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,
who injured me."
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  Upon
willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
with his stout right hand.  The Robber being slain, the timid
with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under
with me tonight."  The Dog thus invited went at the hour
with quiet and easy step.  All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon
with such a rueful look?'  "I seek," she replied, "a mate suitable
with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag in front full of
without ceremony out of the window.  He fell with force upon the
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached
would capture it on his own account.  The next day he attempted
would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more
would have saved me I despised, and I gloried in these antlers
wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.  Then the Ass, seeing
you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together."
you in recompense for your mercy to me."  The Fowler replied, "I
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our
you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade,
you?'  With these words he stretched out his hands toward a
your cost."
your courage never fails you except in this one instance."  On
your sword in its sheath and hold your equally useless tongue,
youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride.
