"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
"O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my
"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
(which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience )
A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time.
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them
A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink.  Seeing his
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
A man is known by the company he keeps.
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed.
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a
Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon
Attempt not impossibilities.
Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for
Cat, quite forgetting her present condition, started up from the
Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
Fox gobbled them up.
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred
It is absurd to ape our betters.
Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree.
Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the
Minerva.  On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as
Momus as judge, and to abide by his decision.  Momus, however,
Nature exceeds nurture.
Prince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set
Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his
Self-interest alone moves some men.
She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
The Ass and His Purchaser
The Ass and the Horse
The Bitch and Her Whelps
The Buffoon and the Countryman
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any
The Cat and Venus
The Crow and the Serpent
The Dogs and the Hides
The Eagle and the Fox
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
The Gnat and the Bull
The Grasshopper and the Owl
The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of
The Hen and the Swallow
The Hunter and the Horseman
The Jackdaw and the Fox
The King's Son and the Painted Lion
The Lark Burying Her Father
The Lion and the Eagle
The Lion and the Fox
The Man and the Satyr
The Manslayer
The Monkey and the Camel
The Mother and the Wolf
The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
The She-Goats and Their Beards
The Shepherd and the Sheep
The Stag at the Pool
The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods
The Two Bags
The Two Soldiers and the Robber
Truth and the Traveler
Try before you trust.
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them.
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing to
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.
a goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it,
about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.  In the agony of death,
accordance with his own nature and powers.  The Fox discovered
against the intended mischief.  And, lastly, he inveighed against
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."
all, beginning with yourself?'
all.  He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"
along with a burning cinder, to her nest.  A strong breeze soon
and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the
and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.
and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at
and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You are
and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it.
and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why,
and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having
and would not permit the shepherd to approach.
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion.
apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation
appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,
assembly.
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper duty in
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where a
being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge
benefit."
besought her to stop chirping.  The Grasshopper refused to
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows
bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably
brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about
called out to him and said, "Get along with you! for I will now
came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and
can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "a
caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his
cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and
companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his
companion."
confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said:
contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to
couch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it.  Venus was much
crocodile caught him and ate him.  Thus the earth, the air, and
cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."
desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated.
dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the
disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape.
discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her
discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up
drinking long before they reached the hides.
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.  When
else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
enjoyment."
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
even if it had been only with those words, for I should have been
evening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass
eyes of their neighbors.
fanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged
father's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account
faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."
few, but is now with all men."
find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a
finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young
first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and
fondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the
food.  As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he
for the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
forsooth!
foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily
friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he
generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the
grave-hillock.
habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.  The
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
have experienced with what speed you run away, know right well
he climbed up into the tree and shook them down.  The Sheep
he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.  Later on
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "I
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the
heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow,
him.  The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his
himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering a
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon
himself:  "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet which
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied
his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so long
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of
hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificing
huntsmen and hounds.
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink
in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in so
in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quite
in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do to
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion.
in, from which he died not many days later.
indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are indulging a hope
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the
inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a
learn whom he has attacked."  On this, he who had fought with the
lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thus
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in the branches
loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd,
made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part.
made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know
make you a present of the hare."
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw a
might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced his
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions
most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here,"
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
mouth and blew in it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,
myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  If
natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and
observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there
of her young than for her inability to avenge them.  A just
off as fast as he could.  The Hunter ran after him, as if he was
one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himself
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all.
only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all
own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size
owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward
plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones,
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all
pleases?'
pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes
produced her young.  Not long after they had agreed upon this
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode
remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant at
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.  While
rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the
sacred, took great care of it.
said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been
scalding.  The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his
seized her, and put her to death.
shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lie
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by
shoulders and set out homewards.  On his way he met a man on
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches,
squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the
strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward you with
such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge,
such slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplating
sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more
swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the little
that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his
that no dependence can be placed on your valor."
the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you
the bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which I
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able
the bottom of the tree.  There, in the sight of the Eagle, the
the distance between them.  The Hunter, sorely against his will,
the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see
the more encouraged, believing them to be true; but now put up
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said
the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.
theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very
them.  When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him that
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on
thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he
till you can deceive others who do not know you.  I, indeed, who
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to her
to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place
to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself fell prey to the
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
to which had made the most perfect work.  They agreed to appoint
traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shall
tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the
trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice.
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose the
uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves with
up to him and caught him.  When too late, he thus reproached
use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"
utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what she
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and
was greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.
what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."
when you go away."
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she
where to strike.  He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because
which have proved my destruction."
which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the
with his stout right hand.  The Robber being slain, the timid
with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under
with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag in front full of
wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached
would capture it on his own account.  The next day he attempted
would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more
would have saved me I despised, and I gloried in these antlers
you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together."
you?'  With these words he stretched out his hands toward a
your sword in its sheath and hold your equally useless tongue,
youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride.
