"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway.
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
Evil tendencies are shown in early life.
Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
It is easy to kick a man that is down.
Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
Persuasion is better than Force.
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
The Blind Man and the Whelp
The Brother and the Sister
The Cobbler Turned Doctor
The Crow and Mercury
The Dog's House
The Dogs and the Fox
The Fowler and the Viper
The Fox and the Mask
The Gamecocks and the Partridge
The Geese and the Cranes
The Horse and the Ass
The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox
The North Wind and the Sun
The Quack Frog
The Two Men Who Were Enemies
The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer
The Wolf and the Horse
Union is strength.
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He then
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  The
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when you
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you been
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, and
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, being
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
for me to give the water to them than to you."
from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
get credit for it.
grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and brought
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determined
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While
his path.
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
ill, but to good, will."
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, without
into the snares of death."
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
leisure.
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, being
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
me."
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  The
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged
refrain from quarreling with each other."
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of the
sheepfold."
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A Fox
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot even
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a public
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replying
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keep
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, and
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone out
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the one
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with the
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."
with all his warmth.  The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If this lion were
your lack of beauty by your virtues."
your teeth."
