 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
A HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
I assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
Jupiter and the Monkey
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
Pride goes before destruction.
Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
The Belly and the Members
The Cat and the Birds
The Charger and the Miller
The Father and His Two Daughters
The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle
The Fox and the Monkey
The Horse and His Rider
The Kid and the Wolf
The Old Woman and the Physician
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
The Ox and the Frog
The Shepherd and the Wolf
The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
The Vine and the Goat
The Widow and Her Little Maidens
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
The Wolves and the Sheep
There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him.
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would only
and downs of fortune."
and leave us as we are."
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what was
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
earth?'
emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when
henceforth with undisputed mastery.
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "if
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I
in the middle of the night.
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, and
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injure
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their work
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grass
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
most beautiful of all."
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach you
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether Jupiter
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the
of that monster."
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor silly
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentation
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, he
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs have
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."
she had found a store, but had not used it, she had kept it for him
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a
strong.
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled
victim to the sacrifice."
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is at
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; for you would,
