"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
"O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
(which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience )
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them
A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed.
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a
Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for
Cat, quite forgetting her present condition, started up from the
Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred
Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless
Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree.
Nature exceeds nurture.
Prince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set
Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
The Ass and the Horse
The Buffoon and the Countryman
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any
The Cat and Venus
The Crow and the Serpent
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
The Hen and the Swallow
The Hunter and the Horseman
The King's Son and the Painted Lion
The Lion and the Eagle
The Lion and the Fox
The Manslayer
The Mother and the Wolf
The She-Goats and Their Beards
The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods
Truth and the Traveler
Try before you trust.
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them.
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing to
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.  In the agony of death,
accordance with his own nature and powers.  The Fox discovered
all, beginning with yourself?'
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"
and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it.
and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why,
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion.
apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation
appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper duty in
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where a
benefit."
bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably
brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about
called out to him and said, "Get along with you! for I will now
came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and
caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his
cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and
companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his
confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said:
contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to
couch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it.  Venus was much
crocodile caught him and ate him.  Thus the earth, the air, and
day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."
dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the
disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape.
discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her
eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
even if it had been only with those words, for I should have been
evening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass
father's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account
few, but is now with all men."
find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a
finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young
first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and
fondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the
food.  As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he
for the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
forsooth!
friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he
generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the
habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.  The
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
have experienced with what speed you run away, know right well
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."
heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of
huntsmen and hounds.
in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do to
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion.
in, from which he died not many days later.
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a
learn whom he has attacked."  On this, he who had fought with the
lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thus
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater
loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd,
made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part.
make you a present of the hare."
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw a
might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced his
most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here,"
natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and
observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he
off as fast as he could.  The Hunter ran after him, as if he was
one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himself
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all
pleases?'
pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the
rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the
said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been
shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
shoulders and set out homewards.  On his way he met a man on
squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the
sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more
that no dependence can be placed on your valor."
the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the
the bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which I
the distance between them.  The Hunter, sorely against his will,
the more encouraged, believing them to be true; but now put up
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said
the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.
theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very
thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he
till you can deceive others who do not know you.  I, indeed, who
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to her
to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself fell prey to the
traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shall
trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice.
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose the
use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what she
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and
what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."
with his stout right hand.  The Robber being slain, the timid
with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached
would capture it on his own account.  The next day he attempted
would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more
you?'  With these words he stretched out his hands toward a
your sword in its sheath and hold your equally useless tongue,
youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride.
