"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."
A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together.
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
Straws show how the wind blows.
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox
The Fishermen
The Fly and the Draught-Mule
The Fox and the Grapes
The Goat and the Ass
The Hawk and the Nightingale
The Lion and the Bull
The Lion and the Three Bulls
The Man and His Wife
The Peacock and Juno
The Seller of Images
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
The Wolf and the Goat
The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape
The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, my
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
are not yet even within sight."
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle,
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them.
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
deny."
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
enjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
food, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."
for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
go food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on the
him, and tore him to pieces.
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  The
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches.
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you
safety, and without fear."
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it was
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand and
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
should next have something to make us sad."
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holds
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable,
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for what
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
very slowly."
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her and
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and
with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my
with the endowments allotted to them."
you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another
yourself, who are in want of food."
