 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
A HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
Abstain and enjoy.
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
Ass."
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.
Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
Better poverty without care, than riches with.
Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
Crow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
Equals make the best friends.
Every man for himself.
Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.
Example is more powerful than precept.
False confidence often leads into danger.
Fir-Tree."
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
Harm hatch, harm catch.
He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.
I assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
Jupiter and the Monkey
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
Might makes right.
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs.
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
Pride goes before destruction.
SOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
The Aethiop
The Ass Carrying the Image
The Ass and His Masters
The Ass and His Shadow
The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion
The Bee and Jupiter
The Belly and the Members
The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
The Brazier and His Dog
The Cat and the Birds
The Charger and the Miller
The Crab and Its Mother
The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat
The Eagle and the Arrow
The Farmer and His Sons
The Father and His Two Daughters
The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle
The Fir-Tree and the Bramble
The Fisherman and His Nets
The Fox and the Crow
The Fox and the Monkey
The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons
The Heifer and the Ox
The Horse and His Rider
The Huntsman and the Fisherman
The Kid and the Wolf
The Lion and the Boar
The Lion and the Dolphin
The Man Bitten by a Dog
The Master and His Dogs
The Mice and the Weasels
The Mice in Council
The Milk-Woman and Her Pail
The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk
The Old Hound
The Old Lion
The Old Man and Death
The Old Woman and the Physician
The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
The One-Eyed Doe
The Ox and the Frog
The Playful Ass
The Rivers and the Sea
The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
The Seaside Travelers
The Shepherd and the Sea
The Shepherd and the Wolf
The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
The Sick Kite
The Stag in the Ox-Stall
The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice
The Thief and His Mother
The Three Tradesmen
The Two Dogs
The Two Pots
The Two Travelers and the Axe
The Vine and the Goat
The Widow and Her Little Maidens
The Widow and the Sheep
The Wild Ass and the Lion
The Wolf and the Housedog
The Wolf and the Sheep
The Wolf and the Shepherds
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
The Wolves and the Sheep
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.
The memory of a good deed lives.
The more honor the more danger.
There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help in
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him.
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your
admit any interference from you in our affairs."
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At
adversity.
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of
am."
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would only
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
and downs of fortune."
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
and leave us as we are."
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good as
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
and then you will die from the loss of it."
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able to
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what was
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has not
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could
briny."
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
captured and eaten by the Weasels.
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became very
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden
child.
clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went.
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
complexion.
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
delicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
distance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
double death."
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
earth?'
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
enough to spoil the appetite."
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
entertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
expect him to spare us?'
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag.
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.
farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
for safety, so much more perilous."
for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
frequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."
from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
galloped off.
generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
given it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
giving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the
henceforth with undisputed mastery.
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the land
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindly
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "if
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source
in the middle of the night.
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
injuring you.
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had come
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, and
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet a
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injure
led to a disgraceful death."
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their work
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
make me provide the meat also."
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grass
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain is
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
most beautiful of all."
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach you
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether Jupiter
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
of that monster."
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do not
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
others.
others."
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, but
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.
own wings."
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor silly
perfume!"
pounce upon in a whole year.
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The
power of living upon the land."
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do you
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentation
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, he
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The Dolphin
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, while
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have all
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs have
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be made
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,
see but a load of wood."
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or
set off as fast as you can."
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."
she had found a store, but had not used it, she had kept it for him
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise
should be seized and killed.
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the other
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live in
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried in
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
strong.
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
superabundant crop.
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor of
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  When
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, and
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can we
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the Heifer
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy by
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they found
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged by
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriate
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
together to consider the best means of protecting it from the
tore him to pieces.
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is
up to them?'
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled
very great amusement."
victim to the sacrifice."
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and
wanting."
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, and
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is at
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."
wishes?'
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of
with fish.  The Huntsman wished to have the fish, and their owner
with men, built herself a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit to drink?"
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the Dolphins replied, "We
would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am
yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; for you would,
