"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
A CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock.
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground.
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep.
AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.
Do not attempt too much at once.
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
Harm seek.  harm find.
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
I see no trace of any returning."
I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
Lion."
Little liberties are great offenses.
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.
ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
The Ass and the Lapdog
The Ass and the Mule
The Astronomer
The Boasting Traveler
The Boy and the Filberts
The Boy and the Nettles
The Boys and the Frogs
The Cat and the Cock
The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail
The Frogs Asking for a King
The Goat and the Goatherd
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
The Goatherd and the Wild Goats
The Horse and Groom
The Laborer and the Snake
The Lion in Love
The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox
The Lioness
The Man and His Two Sweethearts
The Mischievous Dog
The Miser
The Oxen and the Butchers
The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat
The Raven and the Swan
The Salt Merchant and His Ass
The Sick Lion
The Sick Stag
The Thirsty Pigeon
The Vain Jackdaw
The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
The value is in the worth, not in the number.
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.
Those who suffer most cry out the least.
Whatever you do, do with all your might.
Zeal should not outrun discretion.
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having broken
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had been
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled before
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
back a double burden.
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark of
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall and
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his next
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
club, and drove him away into the forest.
collected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
companions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
costume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
counsel us."
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
disgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
end of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
familiarity and ill-breeding."
fast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited.
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
from the failure of the means of living.
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
get rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
gold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
handling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish me
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, and
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as
life."
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his
like that useless little Lapdog!"
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  But
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome with
mannered dog."
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it is
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you make
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and
more."
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall into
not make the slightest use of it."
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the
one of the bystanders.
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave his
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that they
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeing
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you did
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sons
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
should perish, yet will men never want beef."
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a double
the injury.
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowing
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."
their color, while through want of food he perished.
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When the
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this
though I be silent."
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed me
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
together with his burden, himself as well."
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed very
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we are
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes and
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "Your
us."
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
were none left to croak upon the lake.
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the Dog
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of
with food by force, resolved to do so by artifice.  He returned
with him and of making them his own.  When the thaw set in, he
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I
women at the same time.  One of them was young, and the other
would not only look much better without them, but that they would
yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still
you, ought to cry out."
younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an
