 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting
"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
A CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock.
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
A HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground.
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep.
AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
Abstain and enjoy.
Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
Ass."
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.
Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
Better poverty without care, than riches with.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
Crow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.
Do not attempt too much at once.
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
Don't make much ado about nothing.
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
Equals make the best friends.
Every man for himself.
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.
Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.
Example is more powerful than precept.
Fair weather friends are not worth much.
False confidence often leads into danger.
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
Fir-Tree."
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
Harm hatch, harm catch.
Harm seek.  harm find.
He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.
Hercules and the Wagoner
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.
I assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
I see no trace of any returning."
I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.
If words suffice not, blows must follow.
If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.
In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
Jupiter and the Monkey
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
Like will draw like.
Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Lion."
Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
Little liberties are great offenses.
Look before you leap.
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
Might makes right.
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
No arguments will give courage to the coward.
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs.
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
One story is good, till another is told.
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.
Pride goes before destruction.
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
SOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
Self-help is the best help.
She smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
Slow but steady wins the race.
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
The Aethiop
The Ants and the Grasshopper
The Ass Carrying the Image
The Ass and His Masters
The Ass and His Shadow
The Ass and the Grasshopper
The Ass and the Lapdog
The Ass and the Mule
The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion
The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion
The Astronomer
The Bat and the Weasels
The Bear and the Fox
The Bear and the Two Travelers
The Bee and Jupiter
The Belly and the Members
The Boasting Traveler
The Boy Hunting Locusts
The Boy and the Filberts
The Boy and the Nettles
The Boys and the Frogs
The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
The Brazier and His Dog
The Cat and the Birds
The Cat and the Cock
The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller
The Charger and the Miller
The Cock and the Jewel
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
The Crab and Its Mother
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
The Dog and the Shadow
The Dog in the Manger
The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat
The Eagle and the Arrow
The Farmer and His Sons
The Farmer and the Cranes
The Farmer and the Snake
The Farmer and the Stork
The Father and His Sons
The Father and His Two Daughters
The Fawn and His Mother
The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle
The Fir-Tree and the Bramble
The Fisherman Piping
The Fisherman and His Nets
The Flies and the Honey-Pot
The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail
The Fox and the Crow
The Fox and the Goat
The Fox and the Monkey
The Frogs Asking for a King
The Goat and the Goatherd
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
The Goatherd and the Wild Goats
The Hare and the Tortoise
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons
The Heifer and the Ox
The Herdsman and the Lost Bull
The Horse and Groom
The Horse and His Rider
The Huntsman and the Fisherman
The Kid and the Wolf
The Kingdom of the Lion
The Laborer and the Snake
The Lion and the Boar
The Lion and the Dolphin
The Lion and the Mouse
The Lion in Love
The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox
The Lioness
The Man Bitten by a Dog
The Man and His Two Sweethearts
The Man and the Lion
The Master and His Dogs
The Mice and the Weasels
The Mice in Council
The Milk-Woman and Her Pail
The Mischievous Dog
The Miser
The Mole and His Mother
The Mountain in Labor
The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk
The Old Hound
The Old Lion
The Old Man and Death
The Old Woman and the Physician
The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
The One-Eyed Doe
The Ox and the Frog
The Oxen and the Axle-Trees
The Oxen and the Butchers
The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat
The Playful Ass
The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble
The Raven and the Swan
The Rivers and the Sea
The Salt Merchant and His Ass
The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
The Seaside Travelers
The Shepherd and the Sea
The Shepherd and the Wolf
The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
The Sick Kite
The Sick Lion
The Sick Stag
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
The Stag in the Ox-Stall
The Swallow and the Crow
The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice
The Thief and His Mother
The Thirsty Pigeon
The Three Tradesmen
The Tortoise and the Eagle
The Traveler and His Dog
The Two Dogs
The Two Pots
The Two Travelers and the Axe
The Vain Jackdaw
The Vine and the Goat
The Widow and Her Little Maidens
The Widow and the Sheep
The Wild Ass and the Lion
The Wolf and the Crane
The Wolf and the Housedog
The Wolf and the Lamb
The Wolf and the Sheep
The Wolf and the Shepherds
The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
The Wolves and the Sheep
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.
The memory of a good deed lives.
The more honor the more danger.
The value is in the worth, not in the number.
There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.
Those who suffer most cry out the least.
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help in
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.
Whatever you do, do with all your might.
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him.
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
Zeal should not outrun discretion.
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist
admit any interference from you in our affairs."
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At
adversity.
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having broken
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
all your locusts too!"
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of
am."
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would only
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
and downs of fortune."
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had been
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
and leave us as we are."
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with all
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good as
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns as
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,
and then you will die from the loss of it."
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled before
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able to
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone down
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are
back a double burden.
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what was
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had
be sure to repay your kindness." The Lion laughed and let him go. It
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself to
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark of
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has not
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could
briny."
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall and
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his next
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
captured and eaten by the Weasels.
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became very
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden
child.
clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"
cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
club, and drove him away into the forest.
cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
collected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
companions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went.
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
complexion.
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
costume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
counsel us."
counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
dangers from which you had no means of escape."
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
delicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."
descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
deserts you at the approach of danger."
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
disgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
distance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
double death."
drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
earnest what he can do."
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
earth?'
earth?'
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
end of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
enough to spoil the appetite."
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
entertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
escape injury for your pains.
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
expect him to spare us?'
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag.
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.
familiarity and ill-breeding."
farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
fast as I can."
fast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
fatigue.
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited.
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
first estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
for safety, so much more perilous."
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
frequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."
frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
from the failure of the means of living.
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
galloped off.
generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
get rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
given it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
giving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
gold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
handling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters,
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
having been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the
henceforth with undisputed mastery.
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the land
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindly
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "if
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish me
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, and
his own, because the stream swept it away.
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully
his tyranny.
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
in the middle of the night.
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a
injuring you.
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had come
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone.
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, and
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet a
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injure
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as
led to a disgraceful death."
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for
leisure.
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
life.
life."
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his
like that useless little Lapdog!"
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am a
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  But
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their work
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it is
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome with
make me provide the meat also."
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
mannered dog."
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it is
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you make
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grass
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My broken
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain is
more."
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
most beautiful of all."
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
mouth and jaws of a wolf."
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach you
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
must die in their company."
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall into
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
not make the slightest use of it."
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, crying
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  He
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether Jupiter
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.
of that monster."
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do not
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for
one of the bystanders.
only secure my own escape from him in safety."
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
others.
others."
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, but
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the
own wings."
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor silly
perfume!"
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to
piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave his
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion."
pounce upon in a whole year.
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The
power of living upon the land."
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do you
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentation
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, he
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that they
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The Dolphin
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  Steadying
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, while
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have all
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."
roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, exclaiming:
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," replied
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs have
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be made
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to the
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will place
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly.
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeing
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
see but a load of wood."
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you did
set off as fast as you can."
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sons
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed
she had found a store, but had not used it, she had kept it for him
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise
should be seized and killed.
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
should perish, yet will men never want beef."
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the other
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live in
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt
sticks."
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried in
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
strong.
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body.
such vain disputings."
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
superabundant crop.
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor of
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  When
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
that you would eat the dead and not the living."
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  Then
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away as
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, and
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a double
the injury.
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can we
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowing
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the Heifer
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them.
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
their color, while through want of food he perished.
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened the
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  He
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy by
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of one
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When the
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake of
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they found
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged by
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriate
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."
though I be silent."
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"
time escaped.
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed me
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for this
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it is
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
together to consider the best means of protecting it from the
together with his burden, himself as well."
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed very
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
tore him to pieces.
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we are
under the paw of the Lion."
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes and
up to them?'
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "Your
us."
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled
very great amusement."
victim to the sacrifice."
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and
wanting."
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, and
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraided
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and
were none left to croak upon the lake.
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to me
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the Dog
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing his
who can."
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is at
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
winter."
winter."
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."
wishes?'
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course.
with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of
with fish.  The Huntsman wished to have the fish, and their owner
with food by force, resolved to do so by artifice.  He returned
with him and of making them his own.  When the thaw set in, he
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
with men, built herself a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel
with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the
with your charcoal."
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I
women at the same time.  One of them was young, and the other
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit to drink?"
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the Dolphins replied, "We
would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
would not only look much better without them, but that they would
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
wound.  "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am
yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that
you, ought to cry out."
younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an
your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards."  The Goat
your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; for you would,
