"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together.
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
A false tale often betrays itself.
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Acquaintance softens prejudices.
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
Counsel without help is useless.
Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
Self-help is the best help.
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither.
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
Straws show how the wind blows.
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
The Apes and the Two Travelers
The Ass and the Wolf
The Boy Bathing
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox
The Fishermen
The Fly and the Draught-Mule
The Fox and the Grapes
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Monkey
The Goat and the Ass
The Hares and the Lions
The Hawk and the Nightingale
The Horse and the Stag
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
The Kid and the Wolf
The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
The Lark and Her Young Ones
The Lion and the Bull
The Lion and the Three Bulls
The Man and His Wife
The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog
The Peacock and Juno
The Prophet
The Seller of Images
The Thief and the Housedog
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
The Weasel and the Mice
The Wolf and the Goat
The Wolf and the Shepherd
The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape
The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.
The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to be
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily and
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, my
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
are not yet even within sight."
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearing
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle,
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood on
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, and
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flour
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years and
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them.
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
deny."
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
enjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
food, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
food, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."
for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
gave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
go food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
had enslaved himself to the service of man.
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'
help me now and scold me afterwards."
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on the
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them.
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
him, and tore him to pieces.
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let
him.
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strict
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free with
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animals
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  The
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at
necessities.
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches.
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; and
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flock
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among the
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell
safety, and without fear."
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it was
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I will
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand and
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
should next have something to make us sad."
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holds
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable,
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began to
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to his
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The owner
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard his
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers and
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."
turned piper to please you."
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for what
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
very slowly."
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man replied
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength and
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheep
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her and
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my
with the endowments allotted to them."
yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends
you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another
you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these
yourself, who are in want of food."
