"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
A false tale often betrays itself.
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Acquaintance softens prejudices.
Counsel without help is useless.
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
Self-help is the best help.
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither.
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
The Apes and the Two Travelers
The Ass and the Wolf
The Boy Bathing
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Monkey
The Hares and the Lions
The Horse and the Stag
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
The Kid and the Wolf
The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
The Lark and Her Young Ones
The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog
The Prophet
The Thief and the Housedog
The Weasel and the Mice
The Wolf and the Shepherd
The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to be
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily and
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearing
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood on
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, and
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flour
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years and
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
food, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
gave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
had enslaved himself to the service of man.
hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
help me now and scold me afterwards."
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them.
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
him.
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strict
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free with
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animals
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at
necessities.
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; and
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flock
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among the
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I will
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began to
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to his
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The owner
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard his
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers and
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."
turned piper to please you."
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man replied
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength and
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheep
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends
you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these
