"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
A CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock.
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground.
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep.
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
Birds of a feather flock together.
But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.
Do not attempt too much at once.
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.
Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
Don't make much ado about nothing.
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.
Fair weather friends are not worth much.
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
Harm seek.  harm find.
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
Hercules and the Wagoner
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
I see no trace of any returning."
I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.
If words suffice not, blows must follow.
If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
Like will draw like.
Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Lion."
Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
Little liberties are great offenses.
Look before you leap.
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
No arguments will give courage to the coward.
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.
ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
One story is good, till another is told.
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
Self-help is the best help.
She smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
Slow but steady wins the race.
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
The Ants and the Grasshopper
The Ass and the Grasshopper
The Ass and the Lapdog
The Ass and the Mule
The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion
The Astronomer
The Bat and the Weasels
The Bear and the Fox
The Bear and the Two Travelers
The Boasting Traveler
The Boy Hunting Locusts
The Boy and the Filberts
The Boy and the Nettles
The Boys and the Frogs
The Cat and the Cock
The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller
The Cock and the Jewel
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
The Dog and the Shadow
The Dog in the Manger
The Farmer and the Cranes
The Farmer and the Snake
The Farmer and the Stork
The Father and His Sons
The Fawn and His Mother
The Fisherman Piping
The Flies and the Honey-Pot
The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail
The Fox and the Goat
The Frogs Asking for a King
The Goat and the Goatherd
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
The Goatherd and the Wild Goats
The Hare and the Tortoise
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
The Herdsman and the Lost Bull
The Horse and Groom
The Kingdom of the Lion
The Laborer and the Snake
The Lion and the Mouse
The Lion in Love
The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox
The Lioness
The Man and His Two Sweethearts
The Man and the Lion
The Mischievous Dog
The Miser
The Mole and His Mother
The Mountain in Labor
The Oxen and the Axle-Trees
The Oxen and the Butchers
The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat
The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble
The Raven and the Swan
The Salt Merchant and His Ass
The Sick Lion
The Sick Stag
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
The Swallow and the Crow
The Thirsty Pigeon
The Tortoise and the Eagle
The Traveler and His Dog
The Vain Jackdaw
The Wolf and the Crane
The Wolf and the Lamb
The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.
The value is in the worth, not in the number.
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.
Those who suffer most cry out the least.
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
Whatever you do, do with all your might.
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
Zeal should not outrun discretion.
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having broken
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
all your locusts too!"
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had been
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with all
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns as
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled before
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone down
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
back a double burden.
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
be sure to repay your kindness." The Lion laughed and let him go. It
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself to
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark of
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall and
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his next
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
club, and drove him away into the forest.
collected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
companions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
costume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
counsel us."
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
dangers from which you had no means of escape."
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."
descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
deserts you at the approach of danger."
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
disgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
earnest what he can do."
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
earth?'
eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
end of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
escape injury for your pains.
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
familiarity and ill-breeding."
fast as I can."
fast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
fatigue.
feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited.
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
first estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
from the failure of the means of living.
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
get rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
gold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
handling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters,
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
having been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish me
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, and
his own, because the stream swept it away.
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully
his tyranny.
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone.
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as
leisure.
life.
life."
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his
like that useless little Lapdog!"
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am a
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  But
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it is
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome with
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
mannered dog."
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it is
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you make
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My broken
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,
more."
mouth and jaws of a wolf."
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
must die in their company."
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall into
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
not make the slightest use of it."
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, crying
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  He
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for
one of the bystanders.
only secure my own escape from him in safety."
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to
piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave his
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion."
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that they
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  Steadying
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."
roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, exclaiming:
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," replied
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to the
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will place
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly.
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeing
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you did
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sons
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
should perish, yet will men never want beef."
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt
sticks."
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body.
such vain disputings."
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
that you would eat the dead and not the living."
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  Then
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away as
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a double
the injury.
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowing
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them.
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."
their color, while through want of food he perished.
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened the
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  He
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of one
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When the
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake of
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you
though I be silent."
time escaped.
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed me
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for this
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it is
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
together with his burden, himself as well."
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed very
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we are
under the paw of the Lion."
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes and
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "Your
us."
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraided
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
were none left to croak upon the lake.
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to me
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the Dog
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing his
who can."
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
winter."
winter."
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course.
with food by force, resolved to do so by artifice.  He returned
with him and of making them his own.  When the thaw set in, he
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the
with your charcoal."
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I
women at the same time.  One of them was young, and the other
would not only look much better without them, but that they would
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
wound.  "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still
you, ought to cry out."
younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an
your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards."  The Goat
your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up
