"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising
A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
Birds of a feather flock together.
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
Don't make much ado about nothing.
Fair weather friends are not worth much.
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
Hercules and the Wagoner
If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.
If words suffice not, blows must follow.
If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
Like will draw like.
Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
Look before you leap.
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
No arguments will give courage to the coward.
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
One story is good, till another is told.
Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
Self-help is the best help.
She smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
Slow but steady wins the race.
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
The Ants and the Grasshopper
The Ass and the Grasshopper
The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion
The Bat and the Weasels
The Bear and the Fox
The Bear and the Two Travelers
The Boy Hunting Locusts
The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller
The Cock and the Jewel
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
The Dog and the Shadow
The Dog in the Manger
The Farmer and the Cranes
The Farmer and the Snake
The Farmer and the Stork
The Father and His Sons
The Fawn and His Mother
The Fisherman Piping
The Flies and the Honey-Pot
The Fox and the Goat
The Hare and the Tortoise
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
The Herdsman and the Lost Bull
The Kingdom of the Lion
The Lion and the Mouse
The Man and the Lion
The Mole and His Mother
The Mountain in Labor
The Oxen and the Axle-Trees
The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
The Swallow and the Crow
The Tortoise and the Eagle
The Traveler and His Dog
The Wolf and the Crane
The Wolf and the Lamb
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
all your locusts too!"
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with all
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns as
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone down
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
be sure to repay your kindness." The Lion laughed and let him go. It
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself to
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
dangers from which you had no means of escape."
death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."
descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
deserts you at the approach of danger."
divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
earnest what he can do."
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
earth?'
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
escape injury for your pains.
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
fast as I can."
fatigue.
first estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters,
having been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that
his own, because the stream swept it away.
his tyranny.
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone.
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
leisure.
life.
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am a
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it is
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My broken
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,
mouth and jaws of a wolf."
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
must die in their company."
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, crying
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  He
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for
only secure my own escape from him in safety."
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion."
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  Steadying
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."
roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, exclaiming:
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," replied
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to the
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will place
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly.
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
sticks."
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body.
such vain disputings."
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
that you would eat the dead and not the living."
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  Then
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away as
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them.
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened the
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  He
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of one
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake of
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you
time escaped.
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for this
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it is
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
under the paw of the Lion."
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraided
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to me
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing his
who can."
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
winter."
winter."
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course.
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the
with your charcoal."
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
wound.  "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards."  The Goat
your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up
