A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
Abstain and enjoy.
Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
Better poverty without care, than riches with.
Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
Crow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
Equals make the best friends.
Example is more powerful than precept.
Fir-Tree."
Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
Harm hatch, harm catch.
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
The Aethiop
The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
The Crab and Its Mother
The Farmer and His Sons
The Fir-Tree and the Bramble
The Fisherman and His Nets
The Fox and the Crow
The Heifer and the Ox
The Huntsman and the Fisherman
The Man Bitten by a Dog
The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk
The Old Man and Death
The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice
The Thief and His Mother
The Two Dogs
The Two Pots
The Wolf and the Sheep
The memory of a good deed lives.
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became very
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden
child.
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
complexion.
continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
delicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag.
fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
frequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
given it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
injuring you.
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet a
led to a disgraceful death."
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for
make me provide the meat also."
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, but
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
perfume!"
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live in
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried in
superabundant crop.
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the Heifer
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy by
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and
wanting."
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, and
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."
wishes?'
with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of
with fish.  The Huntsman wished to have the fish, and their owner
with men, built herself a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
