"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
Mercury and the Workmen
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
ROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
The Ass in the Lion's Skin
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat
The Dove and the Crow
The Eagle and the Jackdaw
The Flea and the Ox
The Fox and the Crane
The Fox and the Lion
The Goods and the Ills
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
The Owl and the Birds
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
The Sparrow and the Hare
The Spendthrift and the Swallow
The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
The Wolf and the Lion
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, who
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothing
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
accommodate him.
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even to
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men and
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
at night.
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtime
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth.
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
destruction also."
destruction."
destruction."
determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
down for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."
first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
for they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
from which an irremediable poison, the bird-
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long bill
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
myself, if I had not heard your bray."
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury
own hospitality.
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happened
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found the
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the Ills
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were
similar misfortune."
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, not
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slain
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of her
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, in
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
their past folly.
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagon
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laid
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
who are able to discern them.
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck
witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
you like, whenever it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
