"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
Ass."
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
Every man for himself.
Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.
False confidence often leads into danger.
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
Might makes right.
Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs.
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.
SOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
The Ass Carrying the Image
The Ass and His Masters
The Ass and His Shadow
The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion
The Bee and Jupiter
The Brazier and His Dog
The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat
The Eagle and the Arrow
The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons
The Lion and the Boar
The Lion and the Dolphin
The Master and His Dogs
The Mice and the Weasels
The Mice in Council
The Milk-Woman and Her Pail
The Old Hound
The Old Lion
The One-Eyed Doe
The Playful Ass
The Rivers and the Sea
The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
The Seaside Travelers
The Shepherd and the Sea
The Sick Kite
The Stag in the Ox-Stall
The Three Tradesmen
The Two Travelers and the Axe
The Widow and the Sheep
The Wild Ass and the Lion
The Wolf and the Housedog
The Wolf and the Shepherds
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.
The more honor the more danger.
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help in
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your
admit any interference from you in our affairs."
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
adversity.
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of
am."
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good as
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
and then you will die from the loss of it."
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able to
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has not
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could
briny."
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
captured and eaten by the Weasels.
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"
cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went.
conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
distance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
double death."
drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
enough to spoil the appetite."
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
entertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
expect him to spare us?'
failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
for safety, so much more perilous."
for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."
from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
galloped off.
generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
giving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.
had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the land
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindly
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had come
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain is
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do not
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she
others.
others."
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.
own wings."
pounce upon in a whole year.
power of living upon the land."
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do you
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The Dolphin
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, while
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have all
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be made
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,
see but a load of wood."
set off as fast as you can."
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise
should be seized and killed.
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the other
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor of
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  When
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, and
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can we
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they found
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged by
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriate
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
together to consider the best means of protecting it from the
tore him to pieces.
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is
up to them?'
very great amusement."
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit to drink?"
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the Dolphins replied, "We
would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am
yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that
