"Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.
Count the cost before you commit yourselves.
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.
No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
The Ass and the Frogs
The Ass and the Old Shepherd
The Bowman and Lion
The Bull and the Calf
The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter
The Camel
The Crab and the Fox
The Crow and the Raven
The Dog and the Hare
The Hares and the Foxes
The Hen and the Golden Eggs
The Kites and the Swans
The Oak and the Woodcutters
The Peacock and the Crane
The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep
The Trees and the Axe
The Wasp and the Snake
The Wolves and the Sheepdogs
The Woman and Her Hen
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
Two blacks do not make one white.
Use serves to overcome dread.
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  If
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in one
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
been caused by you."
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly
conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
distrust him.
division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
enemy and I shall perish together."
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
find you, when the day of payment comes?'
fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.
had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, if
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."
knew that way long before you were born."
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
large misfortunes.
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of
make themselves ridiculous.
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who noted
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were so
of their master.
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able to
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you would
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave
present blessings.
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of a
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least my
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of the
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraud
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.
the attack of the man himself?'
the gain of which they were assured day by day.
the sea?'
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox
these wedges made from my own branches."
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The Dogs
with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, as if in
you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard? If an enemy, why do
you fawn on me?'
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we
