"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
False confidence often leads into danger.
Might makes right.
Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion
The Eagle and the Arrow
The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons
The Lion and the Boar
The Lion and the Dolphin
The Mice and the Weasels
The Mice in Council
The One-Eyed Doe
The Shepherd and the Sea
The Sick Kite
The Stag in the Ox-Stall
The Widow and the Sheep
The Wild Ass and the Lion
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.
The more honor the more danger.
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help in
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
adversity.
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able to
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has not
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
captured and eaten by the Weasels.
cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
entertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
for safety, so much more perilous."
for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."
from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
giving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the land
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindly
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had come
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do not
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she
others."
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.
own wings."
pounce upon in a whole year.
power of living upon the land."
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do you
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The Dolphin
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, while
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have all
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,
set off as fast as you can."
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise
should be seized and killed.
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the other
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor of
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged by
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriate
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him
tore him to pieces.
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is
up to them?'
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
