"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway.
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
Evil tendencies are shown in early life.
Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
It is easy to kick a man that is down.
Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
Mercury and the Workmen
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
Persuasion is better than Force.
ROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
The Ass in the Lion's Skin
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat
The Blind Man and the Whelp
The Brother and the Sister
The Cobbler Turned Doctor
The Crow and Mercury
The Dog's House
The Dogs and the Fox
The Dove and the Crow
The Eagle and the Jackdaw
The Flea and the Ox
The Fowler and the Viper
The Fox and the Crane
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Mask
The Gamecocks and the Partridge
The Geese and the Cranes
The Goods and the Ills
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
The Horse and the Ass
The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox
The North Wind and the Sun
The Owl and the Birds
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
The Quack Frog
The Sparrow and the Hare
The Spendthrift and the Swallow
The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
The Two Men Who Were Enemies
The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer
The Wolf and the Horse
The Wolf and the Lion
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
Union is strength.
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, who
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothing
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
accommodate him.
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even to
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He then
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men and
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  The
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when you
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you been
at night.
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, and
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtime
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, being
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth.
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
destruction also."
destruction."
destruction."
determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
down for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."
first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
for me to give the water to them than to you."
for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
for they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
from which an irremediable poison, the bird-
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
get credit for it.
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and brought
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determined
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While
his path.
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
ill, but to good, will."
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, without
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long bill
into the snares of death."
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
leisure.
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, being
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
me."
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty
myself, if I had not heard your bray."
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in
own hospitality.
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happened
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  The
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged
refrain from quarreling with each other."
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of the
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found the
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the Ills
sheepfold."
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were
similar misfortune."
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, not
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A Fox
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot even
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a public
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slain
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of her
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, in
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replying
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'
their past folly.
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keep
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, and
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagon
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laid
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone out
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the one
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with the
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
who are able to discern them.
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck
with all his warmth.  The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If this lion were
witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
you like, whenever it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
your lack of beauty by your virtues."
your teeth."
