"Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it
A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple.
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
AN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a
As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and
Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
Elephant."
King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion to be set
Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke
Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my
Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and
Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
The Ass and His Driver
The Ass and the Charger
The Bald Man and the Fly
The Camel and Jupiter
The Eagle and His Captor
The Eagle and the Kite
The Lamb and the Wolf
The Lion and the Shepherd
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his
The Mules and the Robbers
The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree
The Panther and the Shepherds
The Rich Man and the Tanner
The Rose and the Amaranth
The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea
The Thrush and the Fowler
The Viper and the File
The Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favor of a
afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself
after his buffetings with the deep.  After a while he awoke, and
after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me back
afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, wagging
again.  The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought
air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from the
all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded of
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him
any wound."
aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and
attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.  The
away.  The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
be eaten by you."
because its berries were so delicious.  A Fowler observed her
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should
came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time he
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  The Eagle,
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse was
clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
conscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the
crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the
dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to
die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is
discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to
endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
fail in the performance."
feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.
fellow if you expect to get anything from me, who am accustomed
for me, and am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
former owner, lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a
forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who
free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and
fury."
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had
hastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came
him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.
his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."  The
human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had
incurred a heavier penalty."
induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed
injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with
inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a
it at all.
it at once as an offering to his benefactor.  A Fox, seeing this,
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,
leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injure
length of time it had lain about the fields.  "Is this," said the
life with stones, and those who gave me food
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."
looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
meal.  The File replied, "You must indeed be a simple-minded
misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I was
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the winds
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he
of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,
owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure,
pain, the Lion returned into the forest.  Some time after, the
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain.
persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.  Shortly
placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his
prolong his life.  At night they returned home, not dreaming of
recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is nothing
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die.
restored to his friends.
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,
second time of your wings."
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have often
spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about to
strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to give
strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and
suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into
that I would not have promised, however much I knew that I must
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, as
the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularly
the ostrich you promised me."  The Kite, soaring aloft into the
the seasons.  A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding the
their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty
them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with their
them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him:
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, and
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed
to take from everyone, and never to give anything in return."
tree in company with a Kite.  "Why," said the Kite, "do I see you
tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed his neighbor to go
which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain.
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,
who injured me."
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
with quiet and easy step.  All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon
with such a rueful look?'  "I seek," she replied, "a mate suitable
wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.  Then the Ass, seeing
your cost."
