"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time.
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink.  Seeing his
A man is known by the company he keeps.
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon
Attempt not impossibilities.
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
Fox gobbled them up.
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
It is absurd to ape our betters.
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the
Minerva.  On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as
Momus as judge, and to abide by his decision.  Momus, however,
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his
Self-interest alone moves some men.
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
The Ass and His Purchaser
The Bitch and Her Whelps
The Dogs and the Hides
The Eagle and the Fox
The Gnat and the Bull
The Grasshopper and the Owl
The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of
The Jackdaw and the Fox
The Lark Burying Her Father
The Man and the Satyr
The Monkey and the Camel
The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
The Shepherd and the Sheep
The Stag at the Pool
The Two Bags
The Two Soldiers and the Robber
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.
a goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it,
against the intended mischief.  And, lastly, he inveighed against
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."
all.  He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
along with a burning cinder, to her nest.  A strong breeze soon
and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the
and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.
and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at
and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You are
and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having
and would not permit the shepherd to approach.
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,
assembly.
being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge
besought her to stop chirping.  The Grasshopper refused to
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows
can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "a
companion."
cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated.
discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up
drinking long before they reached the hides.
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.  When
else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
enjoyment."
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
eyes of their neighbors.
fanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged
faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."
foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily
grave-hillock.
he climbed up into the tree and shook them down.  The Sheep
he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.  Later on
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "I
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow,
him.  The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his
himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering a
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon
himself:  "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet which
his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so long
hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificing
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink
in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in so
in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quite
indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are indulging a hope
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the
inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in the branches
made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
mouth and blew in it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,
myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  If
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there
of her young than for her inability to avenge them.  A just
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all.
only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.
own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size
owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have
plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones,
produced her young.  Not long after they had agreed upon this
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the
remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant at
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.  While
sacred, took great care of it.
scalding.  The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his
seized her, and put her to death.
she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lie
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches,
strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward you with
such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge,
such slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplating
swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the little
that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able
the bottom of the tree.  There, in the sight of the Eagle, the
the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see
them.  When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him that
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on
to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
to which had made the most perfect work.  They agreed to appoint
tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the
uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves with
up to him and caught him.  When too late, he thus reproached
utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of
was greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.
when you go away."
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she
where to strike.  He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because
which have proved my destruction."
which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the
with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag in front full of
wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came
would have saved me I despised, and I gloried in these antlers
you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together."
