"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
A CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock.
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep.
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.
Do not attempt too much at once.
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
I see no trace of any returning."
I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
Lion."
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
The Ass and the Lapdog
The Boasting Traveler
The Boy and the Filberts
The Cat and the Cock
The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
The Goat and the Goatherd
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
The Horse and Groom
The Laborer and the Snake
The Lion in Love
The Lioness
The Miser
The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat
The Raven and the Swan
The Sick Lion
The Thirsty Pigeon
The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
The value is in the worth, not in the number.
Those who suffer most cry out the least.
Zeal should not outrun discretion.
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having broken
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall and
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his next
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
club, and drove him away into the forest.
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
costume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
end of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited.
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
gold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
handling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish me
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap
life."
like that useless little Lapdog!"
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  But
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome with
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and
more."
not make the slightest use of it."
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
one of the bystanders.
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you did
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sons
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
the injury.
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."
their color, while through want of food he perished.
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this
though I be silent."
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed me
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "Your
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of
with food by force, resolved to do so by artifice.  He returned
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I
you, ought to cry out."
