"Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how
"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
A DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair
A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The
It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
Plane-Tree.  As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers
SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
Some men underrate their best blessings.
THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.  "It is
THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
TWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
The Ant and the Dove
The Camel and the Arab
The Crow and the Sheep
The Dog and the Cook
The Dog and the Oyster
The Flea and the Man
The Fox and the Bramble
The Hares and the Frogs
The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant
The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass
The Partridge and the Fowler
The Thieves and the Cock
The Travelers and the Plane-Tree
The Wolf and the Lion
The gift of a friend?'
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at
To this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than
a cock."  Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? I
a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup
a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The Ant
afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of the occasion to
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an
arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"
asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  The
attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how
be like us in outside appearances.
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point of
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove
business."
can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can
care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow."  While he
climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly
continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came
convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
cried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you
dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'
determined to put an end to themselves and their troubles by
dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
drowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked
enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex,
entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
feet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."
for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in
for his life:  "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.  I
ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.  His yelling soon
handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.  I have jaws well
hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller
have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
he had enjoyed his supper.  He replied, "Why, to tell you the
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than
he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,
his lair.  A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, took
his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant,
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously
immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still
intentions.
invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master gives
it from him.  Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,
it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling
jumping from a lofty precipice into a deep lake below.  As they
know how I got out of the house."
man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and
man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to
me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."
more timid than ourselves."
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.
not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him.
old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his
old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let
over all the beasts of the forest, and what a disgrace it is,
perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the
pleasure to his friend, the Cook saw him moving about among his
poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do you
possibly do you much harm."  The Man, laughing, replied, "Now you
proceeded far when they met a company of women and children:
provided with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord it
reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is
really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
relations."
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost me
scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the
seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the Hares
shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether it be
shall now with less scruple take your life, because you are
sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannot
small or large, ought to be tolerated."
so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."
so much trouble in catching you?'  The Flea replied, "O my dear
son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not
strong.  I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter; and I
supposing it to be an egg.  Soon afterwards suffering great pain
take wing.
that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would
that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing of
that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and,
the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you
the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accord
their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town.
them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to
themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of a
there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be
this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth."
thus prolong my life to a good old age."
to its widest extent, swallowed it down with the utmost relish,
to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of
together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old
true, O Jupiter!"  he said, "that I am gigantic in strength,
truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.  I do not
try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass
tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old
unsuspected danger.
up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of
wake them up in the night to their work."  "That is the very
was congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey his
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  Upon
willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and
with me tonight."  The Dog thus invited went at the hour
without ceremony out of the window.  He fell with force upon the
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
you in recompense for your mercy to me."  The Fowler replied, "I
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our
you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade,
your courage never fails you except in this one instance."  On
