 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
A HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
Abstain and enjoy.
Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
Better poverty without care, than riches with.
Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
Crow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
Equals make the best friends.
Example is more powerful than precept.
Fir-Tree."
Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
Harm hatch, harm catch.
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.
I assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
Jupiter and the Monkey
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
Pride goes before destruction.
Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
The Aethiop
The Belly and the Members
The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
The Cat and the Birds
The Charger and the Miller
The Crab and Its Mother
The Farmer and His Sons
The Father and His Two Daughters
The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle
The Fir-Tree and the Bramble
The Fisherman and His Nets
The Fox and the Crow
The Fox and the Monkey
The Heifer and the Ox
The Horse and His Rider
The Huntsman and the Fisherman
The Kid and the Wolf
The Man Bitten by a Dog
The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk
The Old Man and Death
The Old Woman and the Physician
The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
The Ox and the Frog
The Shepherd and the Wolf
The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice
The Thief and His Mother
The Two Dogs
The Two Pots
The Vine and the Goat
The Widow and Her Little Maidens
The Wolf and the Sheep
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
The Wolves and the Sheep
The memory of a good deed lives.
There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him.
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would only
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
and downs of fortune."
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
and leave us as we are."
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what was
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became very
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden
child.
clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
complexion.
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
delicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
earth?'
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag.
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
frequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
given it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when
henceforth with undisputed mastery.
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "if
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
in the middle of the night.
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
injuring you.
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, and
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet a
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injure
led to a disgraceful death."
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their work
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
make me provide the meat also."
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grass
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
most beautiful of all."
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach you
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether Jupiter
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the
of that monster."
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, but
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor silly
perfume!"
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentation
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, he
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs have
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."
she had found a store, but had not used it, she had kept it for him
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live in
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried in
strong.
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued
superabundant crop.
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the Heifer
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy by
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled
victim to the sacrifice."
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and
wanting."
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, and
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is at
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."
wishes?'
with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of
with fish.  The Huntsman wished to have the fish, and their owner
with men, built herself a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; for you would,
