 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
"Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own
"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
"O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my
"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
"Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
"Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how
"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting
"You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
(which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience )
- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
A CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together.
A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
A DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of
A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time.
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock.
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
A HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway.
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion.
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of
A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
A MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground.
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink.  Seeing his
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it
A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple.
A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep.
A false tale often betrays itself.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed.
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
AN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Abstain and enjoy.
Acquaintance softens prejudices.
Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
Ass."
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
Attempt not impossibilities.
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.
Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.
Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
Better poverty without care, than riches with.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for
Bull."
But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
Cat, quite forgetting her present condition, started up from the
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.
Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.
Counsel without help is useless.
Count the cost before you commit yourselves.
Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers
Crow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.
Do not attempt too much at once.
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.
Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
Don't make much ado about nothing.
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
Elephant."
Equals make the best friends.
Every man for himself.
Every man should be content to mind his own business.
Every tale is not to be believed.
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.
Evil tendencies are shown in early life.
Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.
Example is more powerful than precept.
Fair weather friends are not worth much.
False confidence often leads into danger.
Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
Fir-Tree."
Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
Fox gobbled them up.
Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their
Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Harm hatch, harm catch.
Harm seek.  harm find.
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
Hercules and the Wagoner
Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred
Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.
I assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
I see no trace of any returning."
I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.
If words suffice not, blows must follow.
If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.
In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The
It is absurd to ape our betters.
It is easy to kick a man that is down.
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.
It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
Jupiter and the Monkey
Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless
Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
Jupiter, disturbed by the noise of their croaking, inquired the
Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion to be set
Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
Like will draw like.
Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree.
Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Lion."
Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
Little liberties are great offenses.
Look before you leap.
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
Mercury and the Sculptor
Mercury and the Workmen
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
Messenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
Might makes right.
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the
Minerva.  On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.
Momus as judge, and to abide by his decision.  Momus, however,
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
Nature exceeds nurture.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity knows no law.
No arguments will give courage to the coward.
No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
ONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.
Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs.
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
One story is good, till another is told.
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
Persuasion is better than Force.
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
Plane-Tree.  As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers
Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.
Pride goes before destruction.
Prince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set
ROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
SOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."
Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his
Self-help is the best help.
Self-help is the best help.
Self-interest alone moves some men.
She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with
She smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and
Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
Slow but steady wins the race.
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither.
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the
Some men underrate their best blessings.
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
Stoop to conquer.
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
Straws show how the wind blows.
Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.  "It is
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
TWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
The Aethiop
The Ant and the Dove
The Ants and the Grasshopper
The Apes and the Two Travelers
The Ass Carrying the Image
The Ass and His Driver
The Ass and His Masters
The Ass and His Purchaser
The Ass and His Shadow
The Ass and the Charger
The Ass and the Frogs
The Ass and the Grasshopper
The Ass and the Horse
The Ass and the Lapdog
The Ass and the Mule
The Ass and the Old Shepherd
The Ass and the Wolf
The Ass in the Lion's Skin
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion
The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion
The Astronomer
The Bald Knight
The Bald Man and the Fly
The Bat and the Weasels
The Bear and the Fox
The Bear and the Two Travelers
The Bee and Jupiter
The Belly and the Members
The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat
The Bitch and Her Whelps
The Blind Man and the Whelp
The Boasting Traveler
The Bowman and Lion
The Boy Bathing
The Boy Hunting Locusts
The Boy and the Filberts
The Boy and the Nettles
The Boys and the Frogs
The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
The Brazier and His Dog
The Brother and the Sister
The Buffoon and the Countryman
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any
The Bull and the Calf
The Bull and the Goat
The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter
The Camel
The Camel and Jupiter
The Camel and the Arab
The Cat and Venus
The Cat and the Birds
The Cat and the Cock
The Cat and the Mice
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller
The Charger and the Miller
The Cobbler Turned Doctor
The Cock and the Jewel
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
The Crab and Its Mother
The Crab and the Fox
The Crow and Mercury
The Crow and the Pitcher
The Crow and the Raven
The Crow and the Serpent
The Crow and the Sheep
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
The Dancing Monkeys
The Doe and the Lion
The Dog and the Cook
The Dog and the Hare
The Dog and the Oyster
The Dog and the Shadow
The Dog in the Manger
The Dog's House
The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox
The Dogs and the Fox
The Dogs and the Hides
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat
The Dove and the Crow
The Eagle and His Captor
The Eagle and the Arrow
The Eagle and the Fox
The Eagle and the Jackdaw
The Eagle and the Kite
The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow
The Farmer and His Sons
The Farmer and the Cranes
The Farmer and the Fox
The Farmer and the Snake
The Farmer and the Stork
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
The Father and His Sons
The Father and His Two Daughters
The Fawn and His Mother
The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle
The Fir-Tree and the Bramble
The Fisherman Piping
The Fisherman and His Nets
The Fisherman and the Little Fish
The Fishermen
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
The Flea and the Man
The Flea and the Ox
The Flea and the Wrestler
The Flies and the Honey-Pot
The Fly and the Draught-Mule
The Fowler and the Viper
The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail
The Fox and the Bramble
The Fox and the Crane
The Fox and the Crow
The Fox and the Goat
The Fox and the Grapes
The Fox and the Hedgehog
The Fox and the Leopard
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Mask
The Fox and the Monkey
The Fox and the Monkey
The Fox and the Woodcutter
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
The Frogs Asking for a King
The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun
The Gamecocks and the Partridge
The Geese and the Cranes
The Gnat and the Bull
The Gnat and the Lion
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
The Goat and the Ass
The Goat and the Goatherd
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
The Goatherd and the Wild Goats
The Goods and the Ills
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
The Grasshopper and the Owl
The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of
The Hare and the Hound
The Hare and the Tortoise
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
The Hares and the Foxes
The Hares and the Frogs
The Hares and the Lions
The Hart and the Vine
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
The Hawk and the Nightingale
The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons
The Heifer and the Ox
The Hen and the Golden Eggs
The Hen and the Swallow
The Herdsman and the Lost Bull
The Horse and Groom
The Horse and His Rider
The Horse and the Ass
The Horse and the Stag
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
The Hunter and the Horseman
The Hunter and the Woodman
The Huntsman and the Fisherman
The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter
The Jackdaw and the Doves
The Jackdaw and the Fox
The Kid and the Wolf
The Kid and the Wolf
The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
The King's Son and the Painted Lion
The Kingdom of the Lion
The Kites and the Swans
The Laborer and the Snake
The Lamb and the Wolf
The Lamp
The Lark Burying Her Father
The Lark and Her Young Ones
The Lion and the Boar
The Lion and the Bull
The Lion and the Dolphin
The Lion and the Eagle
The Lion and the Fox
The Lion and the Hare
The Lion and the Mouse
The Lion and the Shepherd
The Lion and the Three Bulls
The Lion in Love
The Lion in a Farmyard
The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant
The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox
The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass
The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox
The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox
The Lioness
The Man Bitten by a Dog
The Man and His Two Sweethearts
The Man and His Wife
The Man and the Lion
The Man and the Satyr
The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog
The Manslayer
The Master and His Dogs
The Mice and the Weasels
The Mice in Council
The Milk-Woman and Her Pail
The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass
The Mischievous Dog
The Miser
The Mole and His Mother
The Monkey and the Camel
The Monkey and the Dolphin
The Monkey and the Fishermen
The Monkeys and Their Mother
The Mother and the Wolf
The Mountain in Labor
The Mouse and the Bull
The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk
The Mule
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his
The Mules and the Robbers
The North Wind and the Sun
The Oak and the Reeds
The Oak and the Woodcutters
The Oaks and Jupiter
The Old Hound
The Old Lion
The Old Man and Death
The Old Woman and the Physician
The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree
The One-Eyed Doe
The Owl and the Birds
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
The Ox and the Frog
The Oxen and the Axle-Trees
The Oxen and the Butchers
The Panther and the Shepherds
The Partridge and the Fowler
The Peacock and Juno
The Peacock and the Crane
The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
The Peasant and the Eagle
The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury
The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat
The Playful Ass
The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble
The Prophet
The Quack Frog
The Raven and the Swan
The Rich Man and the Tanner
The Rivers and the Sea
The Rose and the Amaranth
The Salt Merchant and His Ass
The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
The Seagull and the Kite
The Seaside Travelers
The Seller of Images
The Serpent and the Eagle
The She-Goats and Their Beards
The Shepherd and the Dog
The Shepherd and the Sea
The Shepherd and the Sheep
The Shepherd and the Wolf
The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea
The Sick Kite
The Sick Lion
The Sick Stag
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
The Sparrow and the Hare
The Spendthrift and the Swallow
The Stag at the Pool
The Stag in the Ox-Stall
The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep
The Swallow and the Crow
The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice
The Swan and the Goose
The Swollen Fox
The Thief and His Mother
The Thief and the Housedog
The Thief and the Innkeeper
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
The Thieves and the Cock
The Thirsty Pigeon
The Three Tradesmen
The Thrush and the Fowler
The Tortoise and the Eagle
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
The Traveler and Fortune
The Traveler and His Dog
The Travelers and the Plane-Tree
The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods
The Trees and the Axe
The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
The Two Bags
The Two Dogs
The Two Frogs
The Two Frogs
The Two Men Who Were Enemies
The Two Pots
The Two Soldiers and the Robber
The Two Travelers and the Axe
The Vain Jackdaw
The Vine and the Goat
The Viper and the File
The Walnut-Tree
The Wasp and the Snake
The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer
The Weasel and the Mice
The Widow and Her Little Maidens
The Widow and the Sheep
The Wild Ass and the Lion
The Wild Boar and the Fox
The Wolf and the Crane
The Wolf and the Fox
The Wolf and the Goat
The Wolf and the Horse
The Wolf and the Housedog
The Wolf and the Lamb
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf and the Sheep
The Wolf and the Shepherd
The Wolf and the Shepherds
The Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in
The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
The Wolves and the Sheep
The Wolves and the Sheepdogs
The Woman and Her Hen
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
The best intentions will not always ensure success.
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
The gift of a friend?'
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.
The memory of a good deed lives.
The more honor the more danger.
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
The value is in the worth, not in the number.
There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.
Those who suffer most cry out the least.
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
To this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
Truth and the Traveler
Try before you trust.
Two blacks do not make one white.
Union is strength.
Use serves to overcome dread.
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them.
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help in
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.
Whatever you do, do with all your might.
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing to
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him.
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.
Zeal should not outrun discretion.
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot.
a cock."  Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? I
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup
a goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it,
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, who
a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The Ant
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothing
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.  In the agony of death,
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
accommodate him.
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your
accordance with his own nature and powers.  The Fox discovered
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  If
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favor of a
admit a wolf into the fold?'
admit any interference from you in our affairs."
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At
adversity.
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who
afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
after his buffetings with the deep.  After a while he awoke, and
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug
after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me back
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and
afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, wagging
afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."
again to the inn.
again.  The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of
against the intended mischief.  And, lastly, he inveighed against
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having broken
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from the
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
all the profit.
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head
all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
all your locusts too!"
all, beginning with yourself?'
all.  He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
along with a burning cinder, to her nest.  A strong breeze soon
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of
am."
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, he
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of the occasion to
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would only
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
and downs of fortune."
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had been
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even to
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.
and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at
and her kittens.
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded of
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to be
and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You are
and leave us as we are."
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like a
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in one
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He then
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with all
and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it.
and preserved his life by his melody.
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good as
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men and
and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why,
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns as
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily and
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, my
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from
and then you will die from the loss of it."
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
and with men.  I envy you your beauty and your perfume."  The Rose
and would not permit the shepherd to approach.
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow
another.
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion.
any wound."
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons
apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation
appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled before
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  The
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.
are not yet even within sight."
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner lit
arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearing
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able to
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone down
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more
aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"
asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  The
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when you
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you been
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,
assembly.
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle,
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and
at night.
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.  The
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood on
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.
away.  The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chase
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his
back a double burden.
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what was
be eaten by you."
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
be like us in outside appearances.
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I
be relit"
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had
be sure to repay your kindness." The Lion laughed and let him go. It
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took his
because its berries were so delicious.  A Fowler observed her
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper duty in
been caused by you."
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, and
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself to
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point of
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where a
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark of
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.
benefit."
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
besought her to stop chirping.  The Grasshopper refused to
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtime
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, being
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has not
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."
blood I have left."
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,
bloomest for ever in renewed youth."
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
briny."
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to
brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall and
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he
business."
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore
buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, and
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
by an early doom.  But thou art immortal and dost never fade, but
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth.
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
called out to him and said, "Get along with you! for I will now
came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and
came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time he
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his next
can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "a
can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
captured and eaten by the Weasels.
care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow."  While he
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became very
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flour
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  The Eagle,
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
cause of their complaint.  One of them said, "The Sun, now while
caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years and
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse was
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them.
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a long
child.
clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"
cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
club, and drove him away into the forest.
coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
cock, among the birds of the dunghill."
collected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his
companion."
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
companions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went.
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
complexion.
concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said:
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
conscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the
consist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to
convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
costume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
couch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it.  Venus was much
could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
counsel us."
counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
cried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
crocodile caught him and ate him.  Thus the earth, the air, and
crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
dangers from which you had no means of escape."
dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the
dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
definitely a wolf."
delicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
deny."
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
deserts you at the approach of danger."
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated.
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
destruction also."
destruction."
destruction."
determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
determined to put an end to themselves and their troubles by
determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to
die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is
differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
dinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape.
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her
discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
disgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
distance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
distress.
distrust him.
divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up
divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."
do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
double death."
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
down for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
drinking long before they reached the hides.
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
drowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
earnest what he can do."
earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
earth?'
earth?'
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.  When
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to
either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
end of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
enemy and I shall perish together."
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex,
enjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
enjoyment."
enough to spoil the appetite."
ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
entertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
escape injury for your pains.
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
even if it had been only with those words, for I should have been
evening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
expect him to spare us?'
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag.
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
exposed.
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
eyes of their neighbors.
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
fail in the performance."
failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
familiarity and ill-breeding."
families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
fanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged
farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
fast as I can."
fast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
father's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
fatigue.
faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited.
fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.
feet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place.
fellow if you expect to get anything from me, who am accustomed
fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
few, but is now with all men."
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."
fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
find you, when the day of payment comes?'
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young
first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
first estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."
fondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
food, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
food, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
food.  As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he
fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."
for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
for his life:  "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.  I
for me to give the water to them than to you."
for me, and am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
for safety, so much more perilous."
for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
for the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
for they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'
for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
former owner, lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a
forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."
forsooth!
forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who
forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily
four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and
frequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he
friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
from the failure of the means of living.
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
from which an irremediable poison, the bird-
from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
fury."
galloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
galloped off.
gave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the
generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
get credit for it.
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
get rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
given it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
giving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
go food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.
gold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."
gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
grave-hillock.
great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.  His yelling soon
ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.
guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.  The
had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had
had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
had enslaved himself to the service of man.
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
handling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.  I have jaws well
happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters,
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
has no business to seek its food from the sea."
hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
hastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came
have been only an ass."
have experienced with what speed you run away, know right well
have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
having been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus
he climbed up into the tree and shook them down.  The Sheep
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them
he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.  Later on
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and brought
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he had enjoyed his supper.  He replied, "Why, to tell you the
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
he is single, parches up the marsh, and compels us to die
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "I
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.
he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'
hear his roar at a distance?'
heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
help me now and scold me afterwards."
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, if
henceforth with undisputed mastery.
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the land
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped
her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow,
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on the
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,
him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them.
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He
him, and tore him to pieces.
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.
him.
him.  The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his
himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering a
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindly
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determined
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into
himself:  "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet which
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "if
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  As
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strict
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
his lair.  A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, took
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant,
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence
his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish me
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, and
his own, because the stream swept it away.
his path.
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and
his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."  The
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully
his tyranny.
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carried
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they were
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silent
home grieving sorely.
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so long
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificing
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
huntsmen and hounds.
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
if he should beget other suns?'
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly
ill, but to good, will."
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall.
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other
immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink
in body, but in mind."
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in so
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort
in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quite
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a hearty
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
in the middle of the night.
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do to
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion.
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
in, from which he died not many days later.
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
incurred a heavier penalty."
indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are indulging a hope
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the
induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a
injuring you.
injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with
inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still
intentions.
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, without
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long bill
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
into the snares of death."
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,
invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master gives
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
it aloft.
it at all.
it at once as an offering to his benefactor.  A Fox, seeing this,
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
it from him.  Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The
it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,
it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling
it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a favorite alike with Gods
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolate
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
jumping from a lofty precipice into a deep lake below.  As they
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to
knew that way long before you were born."
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,
know how I got out of the house."
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
laid to your roots."
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had come
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
large misfortunes.
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone.
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap
learn whom he has attacked."  On this, he who had fought with the
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, and
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet a
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injure
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injure
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as
led to a disgraceful death."
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for
leisure.
leisure.
length of time it had lain about the fields.  "Is this," said the
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
life with stones, and those who gave me food
life.
life."
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, being
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free with
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his
like that useless little Lapdog!"
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am a
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.
lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thus
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in the branches
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  But
loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd,
loaded with an abundance of riches."
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their work
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it is
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part.
made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome with
make me provide the meat also."
make me useful to him."
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.
make themselves ridiculous.
make you a present of the hare."
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw a
man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
mannered dog."
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it is
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you make
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grass
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My broken
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."
me."
meal-bag, we will not come near you."
meal.  The File replied, "You must indeed be a simple-minded
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animals
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,
might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced his
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain is
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty
mischief."
miserably in our arid homes.  What will be our future condition
misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I was
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all the
more timid than ourselves."
more."
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and
most beautiful of all."
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and
most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here,"
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
mouth and blew in it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,
mouth and jaws of a wolf."
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  The
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.
much by their own folly they have really brought them on
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach you
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
must die in their company."
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
my friend and I must have our dinners."
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"
myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  If
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
myself, if I had not heard your bray."
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal
natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the
nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the winds
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
necessities.
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall into
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strength
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before
not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him.
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to
not make the slightest use of it."
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for these
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, crying
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was
oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he
observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches.
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  He
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who noted
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether Jupiter
of her young than for her inability to avenge them.  A just
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; and
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were so
of stealing something which should enable him to pay his
of that monster."
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheat
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the Lion
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flock
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
of their master.
of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At last
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."
off as fast as he could.  The Hunter ran after him, as if he was
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his
old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do not
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himself
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for
one of the bystanders.
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all.
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."
only secure my own escape from him in safety."
only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
only to serve the turn of a Fox."
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.
others.
others."
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, and
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared to
out."
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able to
over all the beasts of the forest, and what a disgrace it is,
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, but
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
own hospitality.
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,
own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size
own wings."
owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have
owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure,
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards
pain, the Lion returned into the forest.  Some time after, the
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain.
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happened
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor silly
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among the
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward
perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she
perfume!"
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.  Shortly
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to the
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to
piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave his
placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his
plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones,
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you would
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
pleases?'
pleasure to his friend, the Cook saw him moving about among his
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do you
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion."
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
possibly do you much harm."  The Man, laughing, replied, "Now you
pounce upon in a whole year.
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled these
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The
power of living upon the land."
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will be
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
present blessings.
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of a
proceeded far when they met a company of women and children:
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,
produced her young.  Not long after they had agreed upon this
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
prolong his life.  At night they returned home, not dreaming of
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do you
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  The
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentation
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, he
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving
provided with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord it
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that they
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least my
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The Dolphin
reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  Steadying
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the
recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged
refrain from quarreling with each other."
relations."
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant at
rendered him by the Eagle.
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in
replied, "I indeed, dear Amaranth, flourish but for a brief
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, while
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is nothing
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was only
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have all
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die.
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
restored to his friends.
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.  While
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and set
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At
roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, exclaiming:
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of the
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell
running for a dinner, but he for his life."
rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the
sacred, took great care of it.
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,
safety, and without fear."
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had
said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," replied
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs have
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into a
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be made
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost me
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you go
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to the
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear
scalding.  The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his
scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will place
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly.
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeing
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
season! If no cruel hand pluck me from my stem, yet I must perish
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of the
second time of your wings."
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have often
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
see but a load of wood."
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the Hares
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it was
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother
seized her, and put her to death.
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you did
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found the
set off as fast as you can."
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sons
shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether it be
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,
shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.
shall now with less scruple take your life, because you are
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the Ills
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."
she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lie
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed
she had found a store, but had not used it, she had kept it for him
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I will
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
sheepfold."
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand and
should be seized and killed.
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
should next have something to make us sad."
should perish, yet will men never want beef."
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity
should repay me with these painful requitals!"
shoulders and set out homewards.  On his way he met a man on
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, he
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were
similar misfortune."
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the other
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, not
sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannot
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holds
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the service
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches,
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A Fox
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.
small or large, ought to be tolerated."
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live in
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the
so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."
so much trouble in catching you?'  The Flea replied, "O my dear
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,
son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he became
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.
speech."
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think
squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt
sticks."
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about to
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried in
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to give
strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable,
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a
strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward you with
strong.
strong.  I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter; and I
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot even
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a public
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get
such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge,
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body.
such slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplating
such vain disputings."
suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
superabundant crop.
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
supposing it to be an egg.  Soon afterwards suffering great pain
sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the little
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slain
take wing.
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of her
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor of
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'
that I would not have promised, however much I knew that I must
that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing of
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and,
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with
that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, as
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to
that into the bargain."
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  When
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of wind
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
that no dependence can be placed on your valor."
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraud
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,
that you would eat the dead and not the living."
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you
the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of the
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  Then
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he
the attack of the man himself?'
the audience.
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away as
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
the bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which I
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able
the bottom of the tree.  There, in the sight of the Eagle, the
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly
the chance of obtaining more."
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
the distance between them.  The Hunter, sorely against his will,
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'
the gain of which they were assured day by day.
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, and
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a double
the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little
the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you
the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties he
the injury.
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can we
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularly
the more encouraged, believing them to be true; but now put up
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowing
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, in
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said
the ostrich you promised me."  The Kite, soaring aloft into the
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the Heifer
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them.
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accord
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of
the sea?'
the seasons.  A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding the
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one was
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replying
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him
the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox
their color, while through want of food he perished.
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began to
their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings.
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.
their past folly.
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town.
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened the
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.
them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with their
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  He
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keep
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy by
them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,
them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him:
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent
them.  When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him that
themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of a
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
themselves."
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of one
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and
there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When the
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."
these wedges made from my own branches."
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake of
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they found
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged by
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriate
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.
this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth."
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his
thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."
though I be silent."
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of
thus prolong my life to a good old age."
till you can deceive others who do not know you.  I, indeed, who
time escaped.
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, and
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to his
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her and
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed me
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to her
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come
to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for this
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The owner
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard his
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have
to its widest extent, swallowed it down with the utmost relish,
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it is
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian
to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the
to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself fell prey to the
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
to take from everyone, and never to give anything in return."
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, and
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,
to which had made the most perfect work.  They agreed to appoint
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem
together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on
together to consider the best means of protecting it from the
together with his burden, himself as well."
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed very
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers and
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
tore him to pieces.
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shall
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
treated these poor Ants?'
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
tree in company with a Kite.  "Why," said the Kite, "do I see you
tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the
trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice.
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose the
tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to
trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old
true, O Jupiter!"  he said, "that I am gigantic in strength,
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."
truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.  I do not
try and catch fish?'
try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.
tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagon
turned piper to please you."
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we are
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laid
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,
under the paw of the Lion."
under the water and drowned him.
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for what
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are
uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed his neighbor to go
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is
unsuspected danger.
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes and
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves with
up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of
up to him and caught him.  When too late, he thus reproached
up to them?'
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone out
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "Your
us."
use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"
using them."
utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
very great amusement."
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungry
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
very slowly."
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the one
victim to the sacrifice."
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perish
wake them up in the night to their work."  "That is the very
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and
wanting."
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what she
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own
was congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey his
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and
was greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
water within his reach and thus saved his life.
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived in
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, he
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The
we get out again from so great a depth?'
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, and
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraided
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and
were none left to croak upon the lake.
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid
were to forego my present certain gain."
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man replied
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this
what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength and
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to me
wheels.
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheep
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell
when you go away."
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her and
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she
where to strike.  He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the Dog
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,
which have proved my destruction."
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There
which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side
which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain.
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellent
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with the
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse
who are able to discern them.
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing his
who can."
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not
who injured me."
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  Upon
wife, the Frogs lifted up their voices in clamor to the sky.
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is at
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The Dogs
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with
willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
winter."
winter."
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."
wishes?'
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course.
with all his warmth.  The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays
with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of
with fish.  The Huntsman wished to have the fish, and their owner
with food by force, resolved to do so by artifice.  He returned
with him and of making them his own.  When the thaw set in, he
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
with his stout right hand.  The Robber being slain, the timid
with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under
with me tonight."  The Dog thus invited went at the hour
with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my
with men, built herself a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
with quiet and easy step.  All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon
with such a rueful look?'  "I seek," she replied, "a mate suitable
with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between
with the endowments allotted to them."
with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If this lion were
with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag in front full of
with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the
with your charcoal."
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I
without ceremony out of the window.  He fell with force upon the
witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and
wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
women at the same time.  One of them was young, and the other
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached
work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit to drink?"
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the Dolphins replied, "We
would capture it on his own account.  The next day he attempted
would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more
would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
would have saved me I despised, and I gloried in these antlers
would not only look much better without them, but that they would
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, as if in
wound.  "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.  Then the Ass, seeing
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still
yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard? If an enemy, why do
you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another
you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together."
you fawn on me?'
you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but
you in recompense for your mercy to me."  The Fowler replied, "I
you like, whenever it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable
you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that
you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
you, ought to cry out."
you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade,
you?'  With these words he stretched out his hands toward a
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an
your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards."  The Goat
your cost."
your courage never fails you except in this one instance."  On
your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up
your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these
your lack of beauty by your virtues."
your sword in its sheath and hold your equally useless tongue,
your teeth."
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; for you would,
yourself, who are in want of food."
youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride.
