"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
"Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
"You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion.
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
A MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.
Bull."
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.
Count the cost before you commit yourselves.
Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.
Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
Every man should be content to mind his own business.
Every tale is not to be believed.
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
Mercury and the Sculptor
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
Messenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity knows no law.
No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
Stoop to conquer.
Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
The Ass and the Frogs
The Ass and the Old Shepherd
The Bald Knight
The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock
The Bowman and Lion
The Bull and the Calf
The Bull and the Goat
The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter
The Camel
The Cat and the Mice
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
The Crab and the Fox
The Crow and the Pitcher
The Crow and the Raven
The Dancing Monkeys
The Doe and the Lion
The Dog and the Hare
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow
The Farmer and the Fox
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
The Fisherman and the Little Fish
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
The Flea and the Wrestler
The Fox and the Hedgehog
The Fox and the Leopard
The Fox and the Woodcutter
The Gnat and the Lion
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
The Hare and the Hound
The Hares and the Foxes
The Hart and the Vine
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
The Hen and the Golden Eggs
The Hunter and the Woodman
The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter
The Jackdaw and the Doves
The Kites and the Swans
The Lamp
The Lion and the Hare
The Lion in a Farmyard
The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox
The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass
The Monkey and the Dolphin
The Monkey and the Fishermen
The Monkeys and Their Mother
The Mouse and the Bull
The Mule
The Oak and the Reeds
The Oak and the Woodcutters
The Oaks and Jupiter
The Peacock and the Crane
The Peasant and the Eagle
The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury
The Seagull and the Kite
The Serpent and the Eagle
The Shepherd and the Dog
The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep
The Swan and the Goose
The Swollen Fox
The Thief and the Innkeeper
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
The Traveler and Fortune
The Trees and the Axe
The Two Frogs
The Two Frogs
The Walnut-Tree
The Wasp and the Snake
The Wild Boar and the Fox
The Wolf and the Fox
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
The Wolves and the Sheepdogs
The Woman and Her Hen
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
The best intentions will not always ensure success.
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
Two blacks do not make one white.
Use serves to overcome dread.
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot.
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  If
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of
admit a wolf into the fold?'
again to the inn.
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
all the profit.
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, he
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
and her kittens.
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like a
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in one
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
and preserved his life by his melody.
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
another.
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner lit
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chase
be relit"
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took his
been caused by you."
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
blood I have left."
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a long
coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
cock, among the birds of the dunghill."
come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
consist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
definitely a wolf."
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
dinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
distress.
distrust him.
division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
enemy and I shall perish together."
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
exposed.
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place.
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
find you, when the day of payment comes?'
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."
for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'
forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."
forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
galloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
has no business to seek its food from the sea."
have been only an ass."
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
hear his roar at a distance?'
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, if
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  As
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carried
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they were
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silent
home grieving sorely.
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall.
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
in body, but in mind."
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a hearty
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
it aloft.
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolate
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?
knew that way long before you were born."
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
laid to your roots."
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an
large misfortunes.
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of
loaded with an abundance of riches."
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.
make me useful to him."
make themselves ridiculous.
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
meal-bag, we will not come near you."
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
mischief."
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all the
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and
much by their own folly they have really brought them on
my friend and I must have our dinners."
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strength
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for these
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who noted
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were so
of stealing something which should enable him to pay his
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheat
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the Lion
of their master.
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At last
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."
only to serve the turn of a Fox."
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, and
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared to
out."
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able to
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to the
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you would
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled these
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will be
present blessings.
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of a
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least my
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the
rendered him by the Eagle.
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was only
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and set
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of the
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing
running for a dinner, but he for his life."
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into a
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you go
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
should repay me with these painful requitals!"
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, he
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the service
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he became
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of
speech."
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.
that into the bargain."
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of wind
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraud
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of the
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he
the attack of the man himself?'
the audience.
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly
the chance of obtaining more."
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
the gain of which they were assured day by day.
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties he
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of
the sea?'
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one was
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings.
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The
themselves."
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."
these wedges made from my own branches."
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her and
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.
treated these poor Ants?'
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his
try and catch fish?'
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,
under the water and drowned him.
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen
using them."
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungry
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perish
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a
water within his reach and thus saved his life.
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived in
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, he
we get out again from so great a depth?'
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the
were to forego my present certain gain."
wheels.
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellent
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The Dogs
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with
with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between
wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, as if in
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard? If an enemy, why do
you fawn on me?'
you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
