"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together.
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway.
A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
A false tale often betrays itself.
ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Acquaintance softens prejudices.
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
Counsel without help is useless.
Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
Evil tendencies are shown in early life.
Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
It is easy to kick a man that is down.
Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
Mercury and the Workmen
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
Persuasion is better than Force.
ROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
Self-help is the best help.
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither.
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
Straws show how the wind blows.
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
The Apes and the Two Travelers
The Ass and the Wolf
The Ass in the Lion's Skin
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat
The Blind Man and the Whelp
The Boy Bathing
The Brother and the Sister
The Cobbler Turned Doctor
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
The Crow and Mercury
The Dog's House
The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox
The Dogs and the Fox
The Dove and the Crow
The Eagle and the Jackdaw
The Fishermen
The Flea and the Ox
The Fly and the Draught-Mule
The Fowler and the Viper
The Fox and the Crane
The Fox and the Grapes
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Mask
The Fox and the Monkey
The Gamecocks and the Partridge
The Geese and the Cranes
The Goat and the Ass
The Goods and the Ills
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
The Hares and the Lions
The Hawk and the Nightingale
The Horse and the Ass
The Horse and the Stag
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
The Kid and the Wolf
The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
The Lark and Her Young Ones
The Lion and the Bull
The Lion and the Three Bulls
The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox
The Man and His Wife
The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog
The North Wind and the Sun
The Owl and the Birds
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
The Peacock and Juno
The Prophet
The Quack Frog
The Seller of Images
The Sparrow and the Hare
The Spendthrift and the Swallow
The Thief and the Housedog
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
The Two Men Who Were Enemies
The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer
The Weasel and the Mice
The Wolf and the Goat
The Wolf and the Horse
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf and the Shepherd
The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.
The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
Union is strength.
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, who
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothing
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
accommodate him.
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even to
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to be
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He then
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men and
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily and
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, my
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  The
are not yet even within sight."
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearing
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when you
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you been
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle,
at night.
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood on
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, and
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtime
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, being
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, and
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth.
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flour
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years and
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them.
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
deny."
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
destruction also."
destruction."
destruction."
determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
down for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
enjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."
first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
food, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
food, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."
for me to give the water to them than to you."
for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
for they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
from which an irremediable poison, the bird-
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
gave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
get credit for it.
go food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
had enslaved himself to the service of man.
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and brought
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
help me now and scold me afterwards."
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on the
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them.
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
him, and tore him to pieces.
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.
him.
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determined
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strict
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with
his path.
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly
ill, but to good, will."
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, without
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long bill
into the snares of death."
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
leisure.
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, being
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free with
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
me."
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animals
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  The
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at
myself, if I had not heard your bray."
necessities.
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches.
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; and
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flock
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
own hospitality.
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happened
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among the
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  The
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged
refrain from quarreling with each other."
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a
safety, and without fear."
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of the
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it was
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found the
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the Ills
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I will
sheepfold."
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand and
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
should next have something to make us sad."
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were
similar misfortune."
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, not
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holds
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A Fox
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable,
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot even
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a public
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slain
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of her
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, in
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replying
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began to
their past folly.
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keep
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to his
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The owner
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard his
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, and
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers and
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagon
turned piper to please you."
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laid
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for what
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone out
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
very slowly."
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the one
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man replied
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength and
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheep
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her and
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with the
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
who are able to discern them.
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck
with all his warmth.  The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays
with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my
with the endowments allotted to them."
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If this lion were
witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and
yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends
you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
you like, whenever it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable
you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these
your lack of beauty by your virtues."
your teeth."
yourself, who are in want of food."
