"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground.
AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
Harm seek.  harm find.
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
Little liberties are great offenses.
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
The Ass and the Mule
The Astronomer
The Boy and the Nettles
The Boys and the Frogs
The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail
The Frogs Asking for a King
The Goatherd and the Wild Goats
The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox
The Man and His Two Sweethearts
The Mischievous Dog
The Oxen and the Butchers
The Salt Merchant and His Ass
The Sick Stag
The Vain Jackdaw
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.
Whatever you do, do with all your might.
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had been
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled before
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep
back a double burden.
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark of
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
collected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
companions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
counsel us."
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
disgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
familiarity and ill-breeding."
fast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
from the failure of the means of living.
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
get rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, and
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his
mannered dog."
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it is
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you make
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall into
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave his
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that they
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeing
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there
should perish, yet will men never want beef."
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a double
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowing
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When the
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
together with his burden, himself as well."
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed very
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we are
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes and
us."
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
were none left to croak upon the lake.
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the Dog
with him and of making them his own.  When the thaw set in, he
women at the same time.  One of them was young, and the other
would not only look much better without them, but that they would
yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still
younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an
